What are the five most important things
for anyone who's striving to be a
masterful communicator to get what they
want out of life?
>> The first is authenticity and presence
is the highest form of authenticity.
>> Okay, on that point, I'm going to play
this video on the screen that went viral
of Marley Cyrus and Amy Campbell.
>> Oh, I haven't seen this.
That's painful to watch.
>> Number two,
>> reduce the amount of distraction. Three,
stop overexplaining.
>> Number four, know how to deal with their
sadness. And I'll go through all of
these in detail, but number five is you
have to know how to handle the
narcissist and the gaslighter. What do I
do? Let me show you. First, you need to
come.
>> Yeah. For a lot of people, that kind of
blows their mind. Jefferson Fiser is
back and the board certified trial
lawyer is using his expertise in
conflict resolution and communication
>> to teach couples, friends, employees,
>> and everyone in between how to master
difficult conversations.
>> Here's the truth. You have to invest in
your communication. If I don't say what
needs [music] to be said at work, I'll
lose that promotion. Same thing in
relationships. Most relationships don't
fall apart because they fell out of
love. They fell out of communication
because of a 100 moments where repair
could have happened and it didn't. Cuz
you said, "Ah, this is so stupid. This
so small." Like there's a recent study
showing that the biggest predictor of
the child's well-being within the
parental relationship is not whether
they were married or divorced. It was
how they deal with conflict. But people
are definitely afraid of the conflict
that they're in cuz they don't know what
to say. And so I want to help them feel
controlled in this, feel confident in
this. And it's knowing things like being
right is overrated. If I respond first
with frustration, I'm going to lose
every time. Or if you want to know how
to handle the insults, the patronizing,
the dismissive, the first thing you have
to do is the mistake I've made multiple
times.
>> I see messages all the time in the
comment section that some of you didn't
realize you didn't subscribe. So, if you
could do me a favor and double check if
you're a subscriber to this channel,
that would be tremendously appreciated.
It's the simple, it's the free thing
that anybody that watches this show
frequently can do to help us here to
keep everything going in this show in
the trajectory it's on. So, please do
double check if you've subscribed and uh
thank you so much because in a strange
way, you are you're part of our history
and you're on this journey with us and I
appreciate you for that. So, yeah, thank
you.
[music]
[singing]
Jefferson Fisher.
>> What do you do professionally?
>> What is your How do you sort of
characterize your profession?
>> Well, I'm a trial attorney by trade.
>> What does that mean?
>> That means I help clients with legal
needs. I'm board certified in personal
injury. So, when people get hurt, I have
trials. So, that means there are other
attorneys that don't ever go to a
courtroom. I go into a courtroom.
>> Then you stand before a judge
>> and a Yeah. You have a judge, you have a
jury, you have a court reporter, a
baiff, you have opposing attorneys.
There are people in the room
>> and you try and convince those people of
your point of view to get a particular
outcome.
>> I advocate my client's facts in order to
get the result that they want.
>> So, why did you think it was important
to write a book about conversation
talking, getting what you want from
the conversations we have with people we
care about? Because I have seen time and
time again that when I am training a
client is what I call I'm preparing them
for cross- examination for deposition
they really don't know how to engage in
conflict. And so I can't think of any
other profession that is more entrenched
in conflict maybe outside of a a boxer
or some you know UFC something that
deals with actual conflict and sits
there and listens to it all than in the
legal world in a trial attorney. And so,
yeah, it's my job to advocate based on
my clients facts to to get them the
result that they want. The reason why I
wrote that book and how that book
applies is I took a lot of the lessons
that I teach every one of my clients and
put them in that book because I'm
sitting there preparing them for
cross-examination and realizing, oh,
wait, they are deathly afraid of the
conflict that they're in. is most of the
time it's the most
emotional, stressful, overwhelmed they
are ever in their life. They've they're
in a place they've never been. They
don't know what it's like. They've only
seen it on TV. And so it's my job to
kind of take their hand and say, "This
is how we're going to this is how we're
going to do it."
>> And how does that apply to the average
person in their life?
>> People think that
the goal of any argument or any
conversation is to win. And same for a
trial. They say you want to win a trial.
I've seen it so many times where I've
gotten the result that they want and
I've realized they still have the
problem. They still wanted the apology.
It all would have been resolved. There'd
be no case if somebody had just said,
"I'm sorry." And so you find that for
the everyday person, it's my job now and
and passion to be able to help them get
into conflict and say, "I feel
controlled in this. I feel confident in
this now. I know exactly where I'm going
in this because I've been there before
and it is not a skill that comes
naturally. It is a skill that is
learned.
And what do you think is the the sort of
variance and outcome? How would my life
change if I became an absolute master in
this? You know, if I started from zero
in this regard and then I became a
master in dealing with conflict and
dealing with difficult people and
dealing with people that gaslight me and
dealing with narcissists and all these
kinds of things, why would my life be
different and and in what domains?
>> It's quite a lot.
>> Yeah. First would be you would be
equipped for outside of necessary
expertise anywhere you wanted to be in
life. People feel like communication is
zero cost. It costs you something. If
I'm not speaking up in that
relationship, it costs my own sense of
worth. If I don't say what needs to be
said at work, I might have lost that
promotion. I I everything the bill
always comes due. If you can think of
every time you didn't say the thing as
like a receipt at a restaurant, every
time it's it's a bill of what I am not
putting into my life because I chose to
either say something or not say
something at the right time. And when
you realize that if I can speak with
confidence, well, that's me gaining a
little bit more. If if I can say things
with control, that's me gaining just a
little bit more. A second benefit of it
is that you realize
being right is overrated.
You can, if you tell me the sky is
purple, knock yourself out, Stephen. It
doesn't have to touch anything with me
on on who I am or any of my opinions.
We're we're opinion-making machines. I
feel that's all on social media. It's to
be set up to give your opinion on things
that most of the time will rarely ever
touch you. And if you can have the peace
of mind of knowing
I don't need to agree with you to
understand you.
If you have an opinion, I don't have to
give one back. If you say something, I
can choose not to say anything at all.
And for a lot of people, that kind of
blows their mind of, "You mean I don't
have to respond?" No, you don't have to
say anything. If somebody's talking
really fast, you can talk really slow.
They forget that you have full autonomy
in it. And when you realize that it's
you who's taking the wheel, you take the
wheel of your life.
>> But what about justice, Jefferson?
>> Yeah.
>> Do you know justice? Like this person
has wronged me. They've said something
wrong. They've I don't know, they
tweeted at me something which is
incorrect. I need to correct the record.
Justice. I think we all have a sort of
an an innate sense of justice. We want
things to be fair and right.
>> Yes, justice is an inherent value that
is high priority for a lot of people for
good reason. You might say, well,
they've they've wronged me. This isn't
right. That's all well and good. The
question is going to be, how long do you
want to carry it? How long do you want
to carry that feeling? Because I can
either choose to let it go. I can choose
to say the thing. It's it's not at all
my position that you should be stepping
on eggshells and not say the thing and
be a wallflower. No, it's the opposite.
I'm saying you you say what you need to
say in a way that is controlled, in a
way that is signaling I don't I'm saying
this because it needs to be said, but
not because I have to say it. There's a
lot of people who feel like, well,
something needs to be said, but am I
maybe you're not the one to say it.
Maybe you you're the one that needs to
maybe needs doesn't need to be said
right now because if they're not willing
to listen, well then what good is it
ever do? What I like to say is, you
know, for you to learn how to stand up
for yourself, you first have to learn
who's worth getting out of your chair
for. I'm not going to be making big
moves for something that is not at all
worth my my time. So yeah, justice is
absolutely worth it. But when you go,
I'm the one that has to be carrying
this. A lot of the times people do
things to you and it's nothing to them,
but yet it's everything to you and now
you're just you're walking around for 20
years with a comment that you could have
said something way long ago and decided
to drop it, but you you chose to to
carry it and now you're the only one
that has the the weight of that. If I'm
dealing with someone who's in a position
of power, someone who's a I don't know a
senior to me at my company or even
someone who in my social group is a bit
more higher up in the sort of social
pecking order and they're continually
putting me down or being difficult or
even a partner that I'm romantically
involved in.
>> What are the hallmarks of someone who
has control over their communication?
And what are the hallmarks of someone
that doesn't like what is it that makes
because when you speak it's very feels
very composed and controlled. What are
you intentionally doing to achieve that
effect?
I'm wanting you to match my rhythm. I'm
wanting you to come to my frequency.
People get it wrong when they go big
time to an 11. Big emotional reaction.
If I have a big emotional outburst, am I
signaling that I'm somebody who's
trustworthy, reliable, and confident? Or
am I signaling that I am out of my
depth? I don't know what I want, and I
am not to be believed. Right? because
it's when you have an emotional
outburst, everybody thinks this is
you're just being emotional and they
don't all of a sudden you're not
credited for the truth of what you're
saying. So sometimes emotions can get in
the way of what needs to be said because
of how you're delivering it. So when I
say I'm going to talk to you in a way
that's going to sound more controlled,
it's I'm slowing down my words. I'm
lowering my volume. Why? Because I want
to pull you down here.
And if I can pull you down here, well
then we can talk about a lot harder
things rather than feeling like I have
to to rush. So if you want to talk to
somebody in your relationship or
somebody that's kind of higher up on the
pecking order, so to speak, when you can
show them that
change doesn't bother you, when you can
show them that you don't have to rush
through this situation, people feel that
you are giving them a sense of comfort.
In other words, in conversation,
everybody is looking for an anchor.
When you go to a meeting, we listen to
the person who's the anchor. They're
usually the person who says a lot less,
the person who's observing and listening
rather than always giving their opinion
about what you should be doing. Those
are the people you don't listen to. As
soon as you, if you've ever heard
somebody say, "You know what I think you
should do?" Does that ever make you want
to do what they said? No. It's because
they they've made it their idea. Now
they're telling you what to do. If I
were to say to you, you can't do that.
What's the first thing you think of?
Yes, I can.
>> You know, it's it's the same kind of
concept where it's me lowering to be the
anchor in the conversation.
>> And when you're in a case in front of a
judge, is is there anything else that
you're intentionally thinking about
with, I don't know, your body language
or the eye contact or any of these other
things that you've learned over time are
really important to get your message
heard?
>> I'm speaking like I've been there
before.
>> Explain that to me. walk into a room
like you've been there before, as if
everybody else is just visiting. So,
what I do before every trial is I will
go in there before the jury comes in,
the judge comes in, everybody comes in
and I say to myself, this is my living
room and everybody else is just
visiting. And so, I will touch the
chairs. I will put my hands on the
banisters. I will walk around. I will
feel that space and and feel it in a way
of saying I have been here before. And
when I can exude that kind of confidence
that every juror that watches,
all of a sudden it calms them down. They
go, who can I rely on here? Who's more
trustworthy? Who's more credible?
Because that's what it is when you're
when you're persuading, when you are
advocating your case, it's who
ultimately it comes down to who is more
credible. And so when I can
not get emotionally flustered, like I've
seen it so many times where a judge
rules against me
and I act as though that's exactly what
I wanted. You know, I am I'm acting as
though, thank you, judge. And the jur
the juryy's never going to know really
any different. But I've seen on other
attorneys where the judge rules against
them and they go [sighs]
or they roll their eyes or they act
frustrated. And what does the juror
think? Oh, they must not have wanted me
to hear this information or this must
have been bad for their case. So, if you
are always reacting to situations in
which you have to be emotional with in a
sense that you're not paying attention
to who's watching you.
>> Okay. On that point,
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, when you say rules against you, you
mean during the trial
>> there's something you request, the judge
might say no, and you say, "Thank you,
judge."
>> You act as if
>> you're not defeated. you act as though
that's exactly what you expected, right?
It's it's the whole idea of that's not
going to shake shake me. So, a lot of
the times you'll see in real court, not
TV, uh the judge will say, "Counsel, can
you approach?" And both attorneys come
up and they play some kind of noise
cancellation to where only the the
attorneys can hear the judge and the
judge is making a decision at that time
that we don't want to hear to let the
jury know. Why? Because it's information
that might sway the case in some way and
not be as objective.
And you have to pay attention to who's
how the attorneys are walking away after
that meeting's done. If somebody looks
defeated, it just signals, oh, this is
information that they must not want or
they're objecting. I've seen so many
cases where there's one attorney who
objects to everything.
It's my rule if I really want to have
one objection the whole trial because to
the jury, an objection is me keeping
evidence out. So, if you always object,
always object, always object, you're
just signaling there's information I
don't want you to hear. But if I have
the confidence of knowing there's really
one objection I know that's going to be
material to my case,
that way they know I've been there
before. This is not something that's
going to be making or breaking my case.
It's it's all of credibility. If they
don't trust me, they're not going to
trust my client or my client's case.
>> I think also it illuminates to me how
much of a communication is nonverbal.
Because in that example, you're just
talking about how they're watching your
body language and how you've received
something,
>> right?
>> And the, you know, if you were
defensive, you know, with all those
objections or if you were defeated in
the judge's ruling,
>> that would work against you even though
it's really nothing was said, like
nothing significant was said.
>> Yeah. It's it's a balance of knowing
am I going to
choose to react because of personal ego
of I didn't get in my way or am I having
the better mindset of I'm advocating on
behalf of my client like I I've been
let's say you're a witness and you're
opposed to me and I'm asking you a
question and I think you said something
that's contrary contrary to the evidence
that I have right here rather than me
getting messed up saying are you are you
sure about that, Mr. Barl. Let me go.
You know, I have this piece of paper
here and I get really worked up versus
me putting you said something and I put
my hand on the the paper. I said, "You
sure?" Like all of a sudden, it's a
moment of it kind of peaks their
interest of like, "What's happening? Oh,
this attorney knows. This attorney is
somebody who's confident and has this
what I call in the pocket presence. I'm
not trying to be too forward. I'm not
trying to be too pack. I'm just in the
pocket like a a jazz band." Like
everybody is on everybody's on beat and
so I'm not I'm not rushing. I'm not
slowing down. I'm just right in the
pocket.
>> In the pocket. Is that what people call
aura?
>> Swagger maybe as some people call it.
Yeah. Aura. You you could have it for
anything in any context. I like to say
in the pocket because it just reminds me
of
the right timing is my timing. And that
is I'm I'm going to match
how I need to be of what's most
authentic, what's most genuine to me. If
you were to ask me to read something
really fast, it wouldn't sound that
great because that's not that's not my
personality. And so if I know that I am
acting and speaking in accordance with
the values that I hold and I'm saying
everybody here is just is just visiting.
This is I've been here before. Let me
y'all don't know where to go. Let me
show you. And I I have that kind of
mentality,
people will listen to you forever.
They'll they'll find that attractive,
saying, "How does this person know where
they're going? Well, I can I can follow
them." It's just it's natural leadership
to speak in a way that says, "I know
where I've I'm going. I've been here
before."
>> I think that's probably good advice for
people who um have important meetings or
are going on dates.
>> Yeah.
>> To maybe get there ahead of time and
familiarize yourself with the location.
>> Yes. just so you you know you don't have
the added anxiety of like stumbling
through the physical environment like
looking for the thing or trying to find
the toilet or
>> I don't know trying to figure out how to
make the PowerPoint presentation airdrop
onto the screen and all those kinds of
things which we've all seen before.
>> Yeah. I always anytime I go to speak um
I I spoke this past week uh in Santa
Barbara.
>> I went ahead of time before my speaking
time to to go I want to see what the
room looks like. I want to see how how
can I touch and say hi to the people
that are working AV. How can I meet
them? How can I if you really want to be
better as a professional speaker? Talk
to people in the crowd before you speak.
>> Get to know people's names. It's going
to naturally lower you. Get to know
their names. Ask them why they're here.
Say, "I'm so thankful that you're here.
I'm really looking forward to the
message and getting to talk to you
today." when you when you can go in and
touch people, it's a different sense
than if I'm going into a room totally
cold because you don't really have the
vibe. You don't really know how that is.
So, yeah, going into a restaurant ahead
of time, that's great. Not bringing your
phone, even better. You know, getting
able to be a sense of knowing
I I've been here before. I want to
welcome you to to my space. When we talk
about um people that have aura, you must
have met a lot of people in your career
and your life generally that you felt
had a sense of aura.
>> Yes.
>> What was it about them that gave them
that aura? What is it? It's a frequency
of
peace for me. I think of people and you
think of people in your life who you
have felt most
comfortable with. the person you feel
like I I can just be myself. I can
finally let everything down. Like for
me, it was my my grandparents house. As
soon as I walk in, it's a different
feeling of time kind of stands still.
They want to know about me. They want to
know how am I doing? They It's It's that
feeling. I could talk about people who
seem like they have aura and they just
have a a glow about them. It's usually
of they're not trying to prove anything
to anybody. They just naturally exude
that kind of charisma because of the
security of knowing who they are and
what they can do. And I guess what
what's the opposite of that then?
Sometimes it's easier to understand
something by understanding the opposite.
What would that look like?
>> I would say that
authentic people,
authentic aura as you said, doesn't come
from people
securing themselves to you. That's for
insecure people.
The people who are authentic know that I
am good exactly where I'm at. Oh, you
want to rush? I'm I'm in really no rush.
I'm What happens today happens today. Is
it really due today or could it be done
tomorrow if I I had to? if it's a slower
pace. I I find that there is so much
kind of what they call cowboy wisdom on
these kind of things where and I'm from
Texas in the south. So it's it's kind of
this
knowing that the right time will come
when that time is right and not having
to push that. So if you want to look at
the opposite, it's the it's the opposite
of aura is insecure. It's named
dropping. It's having to be friends
immediately. It's having to prove to you
how much money I have or what. It's
everything else
being everything to everybody else
except myself.
Like people who have a sense of style,
their own sense of style naturally have
an aura. Why? Because they don't care
what in the world anybody else is
wearing. This is what I like. My
daughter, all right, she's six. We tried
setting out clothes. Forget [snorts] it.
She she can come down in a leopard print
tutu and her sunglasses and whatever she
wants. And you know what? She thinks she
is the flyest thing in the world. I mean
that's I never want to take that out of
her. The people who have a sense of
fashion, a sense of who I am and they
didn't have to look cool to anybody
social standard, but it's do they really
care what anybody else thinks? Usually
the people with aura do not. Mhm.
>> And sometimes when you come up against I
mean we were talking before we started
recording about since this book's
publication what have been people saying
to you what have the chapters um what
are the chapters that have stood out the
most to people and you mentioned that it
tends to be things around dealing with
difficult conversations dealing with
difficult people.
>> Right.
>> And one of the phrases that's been
arguably overused a lot in society is
this phrase gaslighting.
>> Yeah. And the definition of gaslighting
that I managed to pull was gaslighting
is psychological manipulation where one
person purposefully lies or manipulates
the other to make them doubt their own
reality, memory, or sanity.
>> Mhm.
>> Do people talk to you about gaslighting
a lot?
>> Yes.
>> Now that you've written this book?
>> And what do you think gaslighting? It's
one of those things that's been used so
often that we almost have to like pause
for a second just to define it again.
>> Yes. Well, let me put it this way. The
difference between
gaslighting and lying. Lying is a
surface level of
I could tell you instead of having a
silver cup, this is a red cup. Well,
that would be a lie. Gaslighting is I'm
trying to alter your reality into mine.
I'm I'm trying to make you question how
other people perceive you, including
myself. How you perceive yourself. If
anybody's ever questioned, "Am I crazy?
Am I the crazy one? Is it Is it me? Is
it is everybody most likely you're
probably being gas and here's the truth.
I have been the gaslighter.
Everybody has been the gaslighter
whether they intentionally know it or
not. Because it's all that feeling of
preservation of defensiveness of I don't
want people to know the truth of of
what's happening in my life so I'm going
to mislead. In gaslighting, the intent
is to alter your reality, to make you
question what is real and what is not.
So, I might do something wrong and then
I might come home and know that I've
done something wrong and intentionally
try and sell my partner a version of
reality that makes them fundamentally
question what they know to try and spare
me
>> the critique or to control them.
>> Yes. To protect yourself. It's it's it's
selfpreservation.
Say, let's say you and your partner had
come home from a a dinner, all right?
And you're just in a very critical mood
and maybe you're trying to to distract
from something else that's going on in
your life and you're being critical of a
story that she shared at dinner and
you're like, why did you why would you
ever say that? And she goes, everything
was fine. You're like, fine. No, no, it
was not. Did you not see how they
reacted? No, no, no, no. Listen, I know
you don't want to hear this, but
everybody feels that, you know, you're a
little bit much. You and I and I'm I'm
the one that needs to tell you this. You
see how you're all of a sudden is
starting to alter how she feels in that
moment. And I've seen the the other side
of that. And it is it is not at all
something that you can come back from
without serious relationship work to be
able to find a way to say okay what's
how are we really walking in truth
because you get so far away from radical
honesty in conversation. So gaslighting
is is is not something to be taken
lightly. But I will say people often
apply to the wrong thing. They'll use it
as a sense of saying you're saying
something I don't like so you're
gaslighting me. You know, we're in an
argument and you're pointing out
something that hurt your feelings. Oh,
that's gaslighting, you know, and and
they they they use it as an excuse.
>> It's almost a form of gaslighting.
>> Exactly. That's exactly right. And it in
a weird way, it can reverse that way.
But imagine me saying something hurtful
to you and you go, "That really hurt my
feelings." I go, "That's just my
boundary. I just I have a boundary about
everything." Or, "This is you're just
gaslighting me." You know, I've never
met somebody who talked about their ex
without saying my narcissistic ex. you
know, I finally just got out of a
narcissistic relationship. It's never
us, right? It's always the other It's
always the other person. And so, there's
these words that we can kind of pepper
insult into sentences that are also
still another form if we look at it, a
form of self-preservation. Look at all
their bad and don't look at mine.
>> Why is it important that we don't
gaslight others? And I asked this
question because everybody listening now
is probably going to want the answer to
the question, which is what what do I do
about a gaslighter? Yeah. Yeah,
>> but this is avoiding the responsibility
that we all have a like a tendency or at
some point in our life have gaslighted
somebody else
>> and you know I don't think my audience
is just the gaslighted [laughter]
>> statistically clearly you're also all
the gaslighters
>> right
>> so how do um why is it important that we
don't gaslight other people and is there
a way for us to avoid
you know getting into a situation where
our back's against the wall and we end
up gaslighting one,
>> it's important not to gaslight somebody
because every time you do, you're
removing
yourself further and further from the
truth, the truth of how you feel, the
truth of your relationship. You are
withholding
reality from that other person rather
than having radical radical honesty
about what's what's happening. So it it
degrades the relationship. It degrades
another person's selfworth. And in many
ways, gaslighting steals their reality.
It's not something you can give back
without a lot of work. It it's it's
taking in some sense. Now, it can be
absolutely
intentional and it can also be
unintentional as a form of
self-preservation.
And if you feel like you are being
gaslit,
the secret to knowing is slowing down
the conversation.
If I am staying still in the
conversation, meaning you could say
something to me that's a form of
gaslighting, making me question, did I
oh my goodness, did I really say that?
Did I really hurt their feelings? No, I
did I and get into my head and I start
kind of jumping around and trying to
change what I did. But if I were to say,
"Stephen, I remember that differently."
And that's where I stop.
Then you can try other things. And I'm
going to repeat, "Yeah, I remember that
differently."
It's standing in the truth of what you
know rather than being concerned
and misled
by giving someone the reins and the
leash to drag you around.
And if I um if I think about I think
it's thinking about all the times where
I've I think I might have gas gas gas
gas lit someone you know in
relationships backs against the wall um
and you're having an argument with
someone or
>> it's quite difficult in my head to know
the difference between the word like
just tell saying something that isn't
necessarily true or is that is your
perception of things versus like
gaslighting
>> is the is the difference in your mind
intention
>> like is if I if I give my version of
reality
>> yeah We were at that party. You said
this thing. I saw the person roll their
eyes and then they walked away. I think
they're really offended. I think you
offended them,
>> right?
>> What's the difference between that and
me gaslighting someone
>> of between lying and gaslighting or it's
>> Yeah. Like I'm trying to understand in
in that context you gave about going to
a party, someone said something and then
they walk up. What's the difference
between if that's how you saw reality
and you're communicating it versus
gaslighting someone?
>> It to the intention.
>> It's the intention. The tension is I'm
the one in control, not you.
>> Okay.
>> So, you are trying to control the
narrative. You are trying to be both
director, producer, and actor
>> for your own agenda.
>> That's right. For your own film
>> and for control.
>> I'm I'm the character in my own movie.
I'm the main character. And you need to
behave this way. You need to believe
this. You need to act upon that. And so
the more I can try to manipulate that
reality
and what's so wild is it becomes so
manipulated that you believe it too. Now
now that that falsehood has now become
your fact in some sense that the really
good liars convince themselves that that
lie is is the truth. Is there a certain
type of person that's more susceptible
to being gaslit or to being victimized
in any way with conversation in your
view?
>> Anxious attachment. The ones that are
they
people who can't regulate by themselves,
they have to co-regulate.
Meaning
most of the time men are were good
self-regulators. Just give me some time
by myself. Give me an evening. Give me
an hour. Let me walk outside. I'll and
I'll regulate myself.
Most of the time, it's been my
experience. Women are not like that.
They co-regulate most of them. They they
need you to also make them feel good.
They can't be good if you're not good.
We're not good. I'm not good if if
you're not okay. So, it's it's that
whole I'm not okay if you're not okay.
And so in many ways they need you to be
able to calm down themselves and they
they don't self-regulate as well. And so
the people who are most susceptible to
gaslighting are ones who need
co-regulation.
People who are anxious anxious
attachment meaning they they need uh are
you okay? Are you good? Do you need
anything? Are you sure you're not okay?
and versus the people who are more
avoidant and three the the people who
are are typically more insecure.
>> So do you think women get gas lit more
than men?
>> Yes.
>> But women still gaslight women, right?
>> Of course.
>> But just men are more
>> when you're talking relationships. When
you're talking relationships, that's my
personal opinion is because from my
feedback from the people that have read
my book and the people who give me
feedback on my book, Yeah. It's majority
vast majority are are women. I'm not
saying that's some empirical study on
it. But what I will say is
women are just as capable of gaslighting
and gas women can certainly gaslight
women. And it's I I'm saying this with
the mindset of everybody gaslights
whether they know it or not. And they
have in the past. Most likely they can
think of a time in the past where they
did without knowing it. But it is that
would be my opinion that most of the
time men are the ones that do it to
women.
>> Just reading some research here that
says multiple studies on emotional abuse
in heterosexual relationships show women
report higher rates of gaslighting and
coercive control than men. Men do report
gaslighting too, but less frequently and
usually in different forms. Um, and as
it relates to workplace data, surveys
from management and organizational
psychology show women are more likely to
have their competence questioned, their
memory doubted, or their experience
dismissed.
Women in male-dominated fields report
the highest rates of gaslighting, and
women of color report even higher rates
of being told their perception is wrong
or misinterpret or that they're
misinterpreting things.
>> Sounds like that tracks.
And also in medical settings, women are
less likely to be to be believed about
their symptoms. Women's pain is
underestimated. Women get later
diagnoses for multiple conditions like
heart disease and autoimmune disorders,
ADHD and autism. And the list goes on
and on and on. If I had to say who does
more, you know, I'm not trying to put
some kind of like headline of men do it
more than women. In my experience, it
tends to be the guy. And you know what
does that that information show me? It
shows me that that sounds about right. I
do think from the people that follow my
content, listen to my content because I
stay very connected to my community of
so many women say I feel like I'm in
this workplace and they are doubting my
competence. They're doubting my ability
to make decisions. I'm not being
believed. I'm putting I'm I'm being put
down. I'm whether it's not even their
experience. it's just because of their
gender. And those are real those are
real questions. Does that mean that
that's gaslighting? Probably not all the
time. But for me to say, ah, that's
that's a dumb complaint. Uh, you know,
that's just complaining. In many ways,
when you start denying that reality,
then you have the same problem. Do you
know I am I've I've hired thousands of
people over the last decade and I have
to say sometimes it's it's difficult to
understand the plight of someone else
when you haven't lived their experience
like you haven't been a woman or
whatever. It's like very difficult. So,
you kind of just have to take them for
their word sometimes if you've not lived
it yourself or you can look at data or
whatever else.
>> And I do have to say that I have
experienced
>> male executives who were
extremely dismissive of their female
peers in a way that was 100%
inconsistent as it relates to genders.
What I mean by that is I can think of
several male executives over the years
who I observed
dismissing or diminishing or not giving
the woman in the room the same credit
really for no other reason than she was
a woman. And so it's a very real thing.
And it's not every man, I have to say
this, but there is a certain particular
type of person
>> who for some reason in my experience
would see a woman in the in the
workplace or in the high sort of upper
echelons of the professional um uh
environment as being less than them just
because of her gender. So when I hear,
you know, what you're saying about women
are predominantly come, you know, coming
to you talking about these issues of
gaslighting, it does kind of track with
what I've seen. I'll tell you this. I've
never had a man come to me in all this
time that I've been from my book to my
content this number of years ever say I
think I'm being gaslit. It is it has
always been the woman.
>> Never.
>> What about the conversation around like
dealing with narcissists? Cuz this feels
like it's kind of one and the same. The
words are used in the same sort of
vernacular but
>> Yeah.
>> Do you have men coming to you saying
that I think my partner's a narcissist?
Yes, you do.
>> Yeah, that I do have. Yeah, it's always
it's always they're married to one or
just got out of a relationship with one,
but it's never them.
>> And what what do you say to someone who
is dealing with an artist who is dealing
with someone who repeatedly gas
gaslights them? Let's say it's in the
context of work.
>> Yeah.
>> What are they meant to do? Quit their
job.
>> Well, that is an option. So, let's not
rule that out.
>> Okay.
>> Um if it's if it's worth it to you
because that's that's the question of
what's your what's your purpose here?
And this is where you're going to be
forever. Then there's some things we
need to put in place. But what are you
to do? You are to limit the interaction
like limit the exposure. Talk less
neutral statements.
So if you can many ways you can just
limit the amount of physicality of I
don't have to see you. I don't have to
communicate with you. I know you work
three doors down but I don't have to be
your best friend and you certainly don't
have to be mine. Two is understanding
the game that you're in. It's a it's a
game for narcissists of praise or
provoke. Meaning, if I am not showering
you with praise, then the narcissist
will turn to provoke in order to create
an argument for the same effect. They
they delight in frustration just as may
just as much as they delight in your
praise because they get the same type of
control. I have seen so many expert
witnesses in my field that are that I
what I would term are narcissists. They
they they can never possibly be wrong.
They they don't do empathy. And again,
this is me with the understanding of
hey, we all have narcissistic
tendencies. You know, we all have
narcissistic traits and narcissism is a
diagnosible condition that you can have.
I think more people would qualify more
than they think. But how do you handle
it daytoday is know knowing what kind of
game you're in and it's a game you're
just not going to play. I know I don't
have to say anything to that person.
Two, I'm going to limit my distance to
them. And three, I'm going to use
neutral statements. I'm going to use
neutral statements like that's good to
know. Thanks for sharing. Noted and
things that they can't grab on to and
continue to have in a conversation. When
you think of like the hallmarks of of of
a really really one of these types of
people, what are the way the
characteristics that I could should be
looking out for? If I'm dealing with one
such person who is is going to try and
manipulate me, it's going to try and
gaslight me. What what do they do? They
can never be happy for anybody but
themselves.
They can't be happy for you. They can't
be happy for other people. These are the
type that if you were to say, "Hey, did
you see that Stephen just got this
award? Isn't that so great? You just
nominated for whatever." And they go, "I
mean, that's I guess that's fine. You
know, I when I did this," and they start
talking about themselves.
They can never be happy for somebody
else. They can't be happy for you. It's
they have to find some way to turn the
conversation of why the world is so hard
and so pitiful for them that the world
was against them and they couldn't get
it, but they were just as deserving. I
mean, I guess that's fine. And I mean,
you know, I do this, but nobody nobody
listens. Nobody really cares. They find
that they have a very victim mentality.
So, two is a victim mentality.
Everything happens to them in some way.
And three, they can't feel for other
people. They don't do emotion. It's it's
always about the perception of what
others would think. They're very very
sensitive to how others might portray
them. So, they're going to give you a
different view than they give other
people. And so, the couple might be
terrible,
but for a narcissist, they're going to
put on face that the relationship is
perfect to everybody else. And everybody
goes, "You you must be so blessed to be
married to that person." And you're
going, "You kidding me? They're they're
fooling everybody." And it's a very
helpless position.
>> Have you ever had a narcissist try and
pray on you?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm in the legal
field, man. Expert witnesses have
opinions to them that are
unquestionable. You can't this is their
opinion and nobody else could ever argue
with it when I have another expert who
says just the opposite. So a lot of the
times they are very condescending
you know that's fine and they have their
opinion and this is all there is and how
dumb of you to ever question me. And
usually what gives it away is if I feel
like this is somebody that okay they're
they can't be reasonable. They're never
going to give an inch on what's
reasonable.
I will ask this. I'll say this is
typically in a deposition. I'll say and
you think the juryy's going to like
that.
And or you think other people are going
to agree with you and all of a sudden
they kind of change in an instant to be
able to match what the jury is going to
think. So, if I were to say, and you
think and you think that's okay, and you
think others are going to find that
okay, and you think that the jury when
they hear this, they're they're all
going to agree with this very hardline
opinion. I've seen it every time. Or
they that's it's only when I reference
other people, the presentation of
themselves to other people that they
kind of put on a a show.
>> Why?
because they know that
the perception of the crowd is
everything. They need everybody to like
them, to fawn over them. They they want
their idea to to be the best. And so
they will manipulate the situation to be
the chameleon to to make sure that
everybody loves them at least in in
their mind. It's not a it's not a
reasonable thought. So they will
typically change their opinion to sound
more palatable even though they could
have admitted to that you know two hours
into the deposition.
>> Do they tend to talk more or less than
the average person in the room?
>> Much more.
>> Is there a thin line between just being
insecure and being a narcissist? Because
you know one of the things I was
thinking about is you said earlier that
they tend to bring everything back to
themselves. And I was thinking about all
the people that I know that if we were
having a conversation about your book
doing really really well, the first
response to that would be their mention
of their own book like they would
immediately bring it straight back to
something about them. And I was
wondering some of those people I just
have in the category of just being a
little bit insecure and that they just,
you know, they're a search for
validation. So I'm wondering where where
you think the line might be between sort
of narcissistic behavior and just like
extremely insecure. Maybe there's not a
line. Maybe extreme insecurity is
narcissism.
>> Both can be true. You know, I' I'd say
that
not all insecure people are narcissists,
but all narcissists are insecure.
[clears throat]
>> Um, I would I would say that if I had to
give some kind of line, it would be the
interest for growth.
Insecure people are looking for ways to
grow and to secure and attach.
Narcissists, they're not looking for
anybody to attach on to. They're looking
for people to support them, you know, to
please them. And so it they have no
interest in growth. They to them they've
learned all they've have to learn. I I
am the best. I I cannot improve anymore.
That to me would be the difference.
>> When you dealt with narcissists in your
own life and in the courtroom,
what is the reason why they couldn't
prey on you? What did you do as defense
to stop their games, their typical games
working on you? I don't chase their
words.
Often, one of the biggest things I see
wrong in conversation
is a narcissist will, same for a
gaslighter, they'll dig a hole. All
right? And then they expect you to fill
it.
Meaning, they're going to say something
to frustrate you and you go, "No, no,
that's not what happened. Don't you
remember?" and you start chasing it and
then they just dig another hole and you
keep going and you keep going and you're
exhausted because all you've been doing
is trying to plug holes. You're not
having a real conversation.
And when I can give it a very clear
definition, a very clear signal of
noted, you know, I'm just going to stay
right there. I'm going to see I'm going
to put down the shovel and stay right
there with them. and maybe I'll say
something as neutral as got it. I don't
have to chase it. I don't have to say
anything. And and to me, the the people
that have those narcissistic traits,
once they realize that they're going to
have no game with you, that you're not
going to play, they find somebody else.
They find somebody. If you've ever had
somebody come to you and they're the
more emotionally toxic type of person,
they always have some kind of problem.
They come with you and they have this
problem. and you go, I I just I can't
right this moment. I will. And 10
minutes later, what's happened? They
don't have that issue. They've already
gone to talk to somebody else.
>> I was watching uh Dame Dash on the
Breakfast Club. I don't know if you've
seen it, [laughter]
>> but it's really
>> another Breakfast Club,
>> but it's it's Dame Dash is on there
because he he was um he filed for
bankruptcy and Charlemagne is sat there
>> and Charlemagne [clears throat] is I've
actually interviewed both of them, both
Dame and Charlemagne. And Charlemagne is
very relaxed and every once in a while
just tells Dame Dash that he thinks he's
broke. And then Dame Dash is like very
like hotaded and like trying to prove
prove all the reasons why he's not broke
and like really like you know gassing
him. And I it was it was an interesting
it's an interesting video to watch. I
think it's the more recent one that came
out within the last year because it does
show in my view how to deal with someone
who has a very has a significant ego.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is Charlemagne just never changes
state. Like no matter what the volume
is, no matter how much emotion, no
matter when he starts calling him some
quite personal insults, Charlemagne's
demeanor, his tone, his posture,
>> yeah,
>> doesn't change.
>> Unbothered. unbothered. And you can see
it's super triggering that you just
can't get to this guy. Like it looks
like Dame is like really annoyed that he
and he tries to say more offensive
things. He calls you're a you're this,
you're that, the other.
>> And it's funny cuz I was watching it
this morning and it for me it kind of
tracks with a lot of the stuff you're
saying about like just not going with
them.
>> Yeah.
>> Just not following them where because
they want you to go somewhere and
there's a certain conflict they want to
get in with you and if you just kind of
refuse and just stay anchored to
whatever your point of view is, it's
it's funny to watch. They want to push
you.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. My my dad I can remember growing
up I'd be in the passenger seat. He's
driving
>> and you ever had it where somebody
you're in the passenger seat and
somebody's just rearing the bumper right
on them
>> and and I and I'd be looking in the side
mirror. I'm like I kind of start
stressing out for him. You know,
somebody's really riding the bumper, you
know, right behind him.
>> And I mean just like clockwork. what he
would do, we have shoulders on our in on
the roads there in Texas, and rather
than trying to speed up or get mad, he
would just kind of pull over to the
shoulder and he would say this every
time. He'd say, "Go on with your bad
self." Every time he go, "Go on with
your bad self in the rearview mirror."
Like, that's how unbothered he was by
that of I feel like so many people get
road rage as so many people talk out
loud to the cars while they're while
they're driving.
And he it just never got him worked up.
And realizing
my value and my worth of knowing who I
am is not at all determined
by
where you feel I should go. It goes back
to that idea of if you want to tell me
the sky is purple, knock yourself out.
You know, I I don't have to be right and
you don't have the ability to to push
me. I can move and you have your own. I
I know my lane. I know my speed. I don't
have to match anybody else's. So when
somebody is unbothered, it's not because
they don't care. It's not for lack of
care.
It's an understanding. It's discernment
of knowing
I know who I am in this moment and why
in the world would I try to be anybody
else?
>> Wouldn't life be amazing if we could all
be untriggerable?
It'd be more peaceable, that's for sure.
>> It's interesting because again, just
reflecting on that interview I watched
this morning, when Dame Dash calls
Charlemagne something really, really
offensive, I noticed that as a viewer, I
immediately look at Charlemagne
to see his reaction to figure out if
what Dame Dash just said was true.
And do you see what I'm saying? So he he
turned to him and said, "You're ex,
>> right?"
>> And then Charlemagne just kind of
laughed and like
>> it just it was like water off a duck's
back. So immediately as the viewer I go,
"Well, that can't be true then because
Charlemagne doesn't seem to care."
>> Exactly. Well, it's it's not the lack of
a care. It's
it's just the opposite. It's all the
more care of knowing who he is. So, if I
were to tell you right now, I hate your
purple shirt. It's the most ugliest
purple shirt I've ever seen, Stephen.
Like your shirt is so ugly in that
purple. Does it affect you whatsoever?
>> No, because I'm not wearing a purple
shirt for anyone that's an apple.
>> That's right. [laughter]
That's a good point. Right. But you see
how you you already know the
characteristics of of you. You already
know what you're wearing.
>> And it's not just your clothes. I'm I'm
wearing my confidence. I'm wearing
everything that your parents, your your
loved ones have instilled and put on
you. I am I am wearing the armor of my
faith. I I am I have all these other
things that I'm wearing. And if you want
to say my shirt's purple, that that
doesn't affect me at all because that's
that's not who I am. And so so often
people get mixed up of arguing about no,
I don't have a purple shirt on.
>> When why would you ever argue with that?
They they it's that quote by Abraham
Lincoln that I love.
if never argue with a fool because an
onlooker
>> can never know the difference, right?
And so it's it's knowing no, I I know
exactly who I am and what I'm wearing.
>> And this sort of speaks to the fact that
your reaction determines how onlookers
will interpret everything that's
happening.
>> Like, you know,
>> oh, the worst thing you could do to
somebody who insults you is laugh. I
mean, what does it do? It I mean, it it
it infuriates them, right? But when the
same thing with a bully, a bully says
something to you that they know is meant
to hurt you.
And if I were to turn around and say,
"Did you say that to to embarrass me?" I
mean, what are they going to do? They
they could say yes, they could say no.
But either way, you're realizing I'm not
going to get any reaction. What you're
showing them is for you to do this, it's
just not going to be fun for you. It's
going to be zero fun whatsoever for you.
And so, they'll find that with somebody
somebody else. It's it's always your
reaction that's going to determine how
the conversation goes forward.
>> There's a lot of people listening right
now that are a long way away from that.
Very easily triggered.
>> Yeah.
>> Seeking justice, you know, whatever it
might be. For those people, is it like a
muscle they have to build or is there
what is the journey to getting to this
level of sort of mastery?
>> It's a discipline. It is in the same way
that people invest in so many other
things in our life. We invest in our
health. We invest in self-help books. We
invest in the podcasts that we listen
to. It is the same. You have to invest
in your communication. We don't get
taught in school. We don't, you know, I
I went to law school. People think I
learned this in law school. No. Law
school teaches you how to read the law.
It doesn't teach you how to read people.
You had to. To me, if you are somebody
that is in a position of expertise and
to share something, it either came at
great personal cost or you're making it
up like it it it is something that you
have learned, right? [laughter]
>> It's true. And so I mean whether it's
through skill, knowledge, training, it's
I've you want to know how that I know
these things because I've lived it. You
know, I I have been on the bad side.
I've been on the good side. And it's it
is not it's never something that's just
going to come to you.
>> We are emotional creatures and we're
hormonal creatures.
>> Mhm. So, how do how do you think about
our emotions, our hormones, our health,
our physical, cognitive state as it
relates to like walking into the
courtroom and being ready? Like how much
of it, you know, because if I've had
zero hours sleep and I'm, I don't know,
hungry and whatever else and I'm had an
argument, I'm stressed about something,
it's going to be significantly harder to
show up and be a great communicator and
win the argument against somebody,
>> right?
>> So, do you think about these things
>> all the time? I mean, the emotions are
are right there connected to the words.
And what do you how do you prepare to be
ready for battle?
>> It's an emotional awareness of how I'm
feeling
and also how the other person is because
if I just respond me Yeah. If I respond
to their emotional reaction, I'll miss
it every time. Same thing in
relationships. If I respond to the
reaction, I'll lose that moment to
actually speak to the need. So even in
the courtroom for me, if I know that I'm
a little sleepy, I know I'm a little
hungry, I'm a little grumpy, you know
what? I can either try and pretend that
I'm not. Or I might get up in front of
the jury and say, "Good morning,
everybody. I have to admit to you, I'm a
little grumpy. I didn't need all that
much this morning. Anybody else grumpy?"
And everybody starts to kind of nod. And
now, hey, we all kind of relate, not to
my words, but now to the feeling. And
now you trust me more. I trust you more
because I'm being more authentic.
>> And do you think people should do that
in their own interpersonal relationships
which is just call out their state?
>> Absolutely. Because perfection is not
relatable. Struggle is emotions are. If
I were to come to you and say and you
say how are you and I go good
everything's good when it is not. Am I
being authentic or am I being fake? But
if I were to say, "Let me tell you, I've
had a morning and it's tested me in a
way I was not expecting and my mind is
just not here." Does that make you trust
me more or trust me less?
>> Trust me more
>> every time.
>> So, when you can share your struggles
with people, I'm not talking about your
deepest inner desire struggles. I'm
saying, let me put it this way. Sierra
and I check in with each other every
morning. It's my wife.
And it's only about 10 minutes after she
drops the kid off, uh, kids off. And
we kind of run through how we're doing.
And the number one thing she asks me or
tells me, he goes, "You told me a lot
about what you're doing. You haven't
told me about how you're feeling." And
that's that's the truth of the default,
I think, of a lot of men and a lot of
people. I'm going to tell you what's
going on, what's on my agenda, what I'm
doing. I haven't told you a lot about
how I'm feeling. And we store all that
stuff up because it's still there. But
if I can share with you,
what is my struggle? What's happening?
Not just the good, but more importantly
the the bad.
I mean that it's always going to bring
that authenticity into the play.
>> Women and men are very different in many
ways. And [laughter]
>> yeah,
>> we're very different in many ways. Men
are I I don't know. It feels like men
just, you know, and again, I'm I'm
stereotyping here, so it's not all men
and
>> of course people are different, but just
speaking generally, the stereotype is
that men are a typically a bit more
emotionally composed or should I say
flat and women have uh more emotional
fluctuations. One could look at hormone
changes throughout the month and talk
about why that might be, etc., etc. I've
had many scientists here talk to me
about hormone fluctuations and how that
impacts how someone feels. But what this
means in our romantic relationships is
sometimes we meet each other on very
different wavelengths.
>> Yeah.
>> So in my relationship, my partner's
probably seen me cry once,
>> right?
>> In seven years, maybe twice, but
probably once.
I've probably seen her cry
500 times, [laughter] maybe more.
>> Yeah.
>> So it feels it almost feels like I'm
just going to be completely honest
because I just think it's helpful. So
you can [__] me up online if you want.
But I it sometimes feels like
we're we're a different species.
>> Like the way that I interact with my guy
friendss and the way that the sort of
wavelength that my romantic partner my
my my girlfriend operates on are very
very different. So it's very easy to
like misunderstand. And we spend a lot
of time talking about how men need to be
more emotional and more I don't know men
need to change how the how they are.
Yeah. Because it's the problem. But
what about the like what about the other
side of that which is
[laughter]
do
do women also need to think about
do we need to meet in the middle
[laughter]
is what I'm saying
>> there certainly is space to meet in the
middle
>> like who's right in that I don't know is
is is there a person that's right in
this configuration am I meant to be way
more emotional and be or or is she meant
to be way more composed cuz I I think
that's often how both sides feel. They
feel like, why aren't you coming to my
wavelength on this issue? But I think
here's what you're missing. She would be
much more composed if you would be more
emotional.
>> And so a lot of the times what I find in
my own marriage is when I show emotion,
the more composed she is.
>> I mean, if I start screaming and crying,
I I think my girlfriend's
>> I'm not saying screaming. I'm I'm saying
show emotion. What kind of emotion
>> of being in it with her?
>> And what does that look like?
>> That means you're going to say things
that make her feel it. There's a
difference if I just go static. That's
what happens to me a lot. Uh truthfully,
is let's say we're in an argument about
something or something came up and see
emotional about it. If I dismiss it,
okay, this is so dumb really right now.
This is because arguments never come at
the most opportune time. They come at
the worst possible time. Yeah, that's
hello. That's all relationships. If I
dismiss it, right, does that make her
come closer to me or further away from
me? And if I'm pushing her further away
from me, why would she not be more
emotional? Why why would she why would
she not be further away from me if I
dismiss that? For every woman to be more
emotional as a man, tears are not
necessary.
connection is being in it is saying
things that make her feel that you're
you're genuinely feeling it. The
difference I find with men and what I
struggle with is I can say that I'm sad.
I have a hard time expressing sad. I can
say that I'm really regretful. I have a
hard time
expressing that. I think that is
something that happens a lot with most
relationships and I think that happens a
lot with men of we were emotional and we
got taught early that
you you were not to cry. We I couldn't
even tell you how many times I ever saw
my dad cry.
>> I think this is it. The modeling we had
as well is my dad was either angry or
completely static. And when I say angry,
he was very very rarely angry. But but
when I saw him engage with my mom on an
emotional level, it would be
>> him yelling back,
>> right?
>> If he wasn't yelling back, he was
completely just like he was just very
calm, static, emotional. There was no in
between.
>> Yeah. It's it all comes down to repair.
How quickly you get to repair. That
means can I validate the feeling that
she has?
Validation
is repair. It's not weakness. It's
repair. In my world,
relationships don't fall apart because
of one big failure. They fall apart
because of a hundred moments where
repair could have happened and it
didn't. You just chose not to. Or you
could have said, "I'm sorry," but you
withheld it. I could have chose to
validate how you're feeling, but I said
that's stupid. And it's it's those the
hundreds of those little bitty moments
where all of a sudden, no wonder your
your world's apart because you chose in
those little bitty moments not to do the
repair because you said, "Ah, this is so
stupid. This so small." Yeah, it is
small. All the more reason why you
should repair pretty quickly. And so
when you can validate those concerns,
even when you say she's being emotional,
you're not.
When you go into that static mode, when
I go into that static mode, it's a
choice by me to do something different,
not say the thing I always say, not be
dismissive, not find ways to try and
convince her that she shouldn't feel
this way, but if I validate, if I say
things like, I can see how you feel that
way. If that's how you interpreted it,
you know what? I don't blame you for
feeling that way. I I can see that. That
sounds scary. That sounds frustrating.
If I can choose that it's it's this like
this isn't the key for me and trust me
I'm talking to myself here.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Because every every guy I feel
like can be like, "Okay, this is right."
And if I can
make the hard choice in that moment to
put aside my frustration just for a
moment, put aside my personal
frustration
and validate the feeling and say words
that speak to her need, the need to feel
heard, the need to feel safe, the need
to feel like she's not being too much.
Then all of a sudden, it all shrinks.
And you know what? my frustration kind
of goes away. Why? Because everything's
better now. We've we've had moments of
repair. And then if I still am really
frustrated, then I can bring it up. Hey,
can I can I bring up something to you
that you said that's really bothering
me? And then you do it.
>> How as a man do you know that you're not
setting a bad precedence for the future?
And what I mean here is
>> Yeah. if I constantly, you know, justify
how she's feeling and I and I seek
repair and then when she's happy, I just
let it go. There's I think sometimes
there's a worry as a man that if you
just lay down and take everything, then
you're just going to get more stuff in
the future. Like you're setting a bad
precedence for the future of this
relationship where no, sometimes
actually no, I wasn't in the wrong or oh
no, I did I I do disagree with this.
>> Right? And I think I've observed a lot
of relationships, especially with some
of my guy friends where because they
like never stood up for themselves,
they're now like living in a prison,
>> right?
>> They like never stood up for themselves.
>> Yes.
>> And so they're they've kind of lost all
of their autonomy and agency and control
and they,
>> you know, even when you're listening to
this, there's probably people you can
think of in your life where the guy has
always opted for an easy life in the
short term and now over the long term,
he has a really hard one.
>> Yes.
>> And again, men and women,
>> of course. So this is the balance I'm
trying to understand in your view is you
know when do you pick the fight and when
do you say no that's not
versus just laying down and taking it.
This is quite [laughter] per this is
quite personal to me as well because I
think my dad did that a bit too much. I
think my dad, he never he never chose to
fight. And then I look I look at how
that played out over 20 years and I'm
like, damn, it's completely changed me
because it means that I will now go
through the conflict
>> and stand up for myself when I hit a
place where I'm like that I'm not going
to be able to honor that for you for the
next 30 years. I will stand my ground.
Do you know if there's like an area
where um we might my say my girlfriend's
unhappy about a certain thing I do.
>> Yeah. If I don't think that I'm I'm
going to be able to promise to not do
that for the next like 10, 20, 30 years,
if I if I'm unwilling to change, Yes. I
have to stand my ground because if I
concede today, it's hell tomorrow.
>> Yeah. What what I'm hearing what I'm
hearing is fear of autonomy, fear of my
rights, fear of my
>> dominance.
>> Yeah. Like my freedom being Yeah. Well,
it's it's you want to hear the probably
the number one word you'll hear with
relationships that are on the brink.
It's caged. Men feels caged. You know,
the man feels caged. And really all that
is, it's a lack of confidence
of knowing
if I am willing to do something
different,
then I can't have anything else. So it's
it's it's thinking in terms of
zero sum. See, both can be true. I can
you can still validate how she's feeling
and not at all touch what you still know
to be true. So you can still disagree
with her, but every time we go into a
conversation, we walk in with a need, a
need to feel loved, understood, it is
always depth. Like you think of um like
a kid, right? My son, my daughter, if
when she was small and she screamed or
she cried or told me no, still tells me
no, you know, of all these things and I
just said no. Are you kidding me? You're
going to tell me and I you're crying
right now? Really? And I get all upset
when she screams. But with kids, we
don't do that. We go she's hungry. She's
tired. She's scared. M
>> and we just forget that we're all just
big kids and we all have those like
hidden needs underneath us and so you
still can stand your ground and say
so let's run it. So let's say for
example
>> an example a specific example from my
ex-girlfriend I was on my phone in bed
and I was sending a message cuz there's
something going on my in my business
back in the UK and I was in I was in
Asia at the time.
>> Yeah. And she said to me that she wanted
to make a rule where there was never any
phones in bed ever. I could never touch
my phone in the bedroom.
>> Right?
>> And as I thought this through, I
thought, God, I thought about all the
scenarios where I might need to touch my
phone in the bedroom. And what would I I
realized that what would end up
happening is I just wouldn't come into
the bedroom. I'd like go and do it in
the in [clears throat] the toilet or the
shower or I just like I wouldn't come to
bed if I needed to do something on my
phone,
>> right? And so the conversation went
where I was like I I realized in this
moment I had to kind of like not lay
down on this issue because I would
disappoint her in the future.
>> I was setting myself up to fail in the
future if I if I accepted this and made
her some kind of promise or you know
agreed that we I wasn't going to touch
my phone ever again in the bedroom.
>> And so that was one such example where
I'm like I think [clears throat] I
actually need to stand my ground a bit
here or I'm setting myself up for a
future expectation I can't meet.
So in that moment, what did you think
her need was?
>> Her need was connection. And she was
interpreting me being on the phone in
that space as a disconnection in some
way.
>> And could it possibly be perceived as
that?
>> 100%.
>> Okay.
>> But it wasn't the phone. It was the it
was the it was me not it was her not
feeling connected I in my view it at
that moment in time in that particular
week because I was so busy in that
particular week that I think she was
trying to find a a symptom or a tool or
a guarantee or a promise to express the
feeling of disconnection. So that's why
I look back on it and go it was actually
something else that was just a symptom
of a feeling she had at that moment in
time probably.
>> Right. But that was an example where
like I if id conceded it would have it
would not have been sustainable. There
would have been arguments in the future.
>> I'm not saying you concede. I'm saying
there are times that if you want the key
to the relationship, it is putting her
comfort over your inconvenience.
>> So what should I have done in that
situation? Give me some advice. Do you
think?
>> Well, you've already kind of named it.
one, she's it's not you saying what the
wrong thing to say is, "Well, you were
just on your phone. I mean, you just I
mean, you're on your phone all your
time. You're on the phone all the time.
What are you talking about?" And you
start arguing because now you're you're
responding to the reaction. You're not
addressing the need. If you were to slow
down
and say, "Look, I I still want to be
connected with you. Is there any kind of
place where I can still take care of
what I need to take care of?" and also
be connected to you. Or if there's a
situation where you say, "Well, what
about this?"
Before I just get my phone and grab it,
I'm going to tell you what I'm doing
ahead of time or I'm going to ask.
Maybe that's where it is. You don't want
to ask, "Hey, I
Greg is supposed to email me some
slides or a deck or whatever. Can I
check that out real quick?" You hear how
she's probably going to say yes. But the
fact that you are saying, "Hey, I'm
acknowledging our connection right now."
And see, it might make you uncomfortable
saying, "No, I don't I don't like
anybody telling me what to do. I don't
have to I don't want to report to
anybody." Okay, that's that's fine.
Well, then you just know that connection
is always going to be weak. And so, you
you're signing your name to that. I
don't think I mean there's I have lots
of thoughts on phones in houses and
where they should go, but if you were to
have instead of arguing the what are you
talking about? You're on your phone all
all the time. And instead said,
I can see how that would make you feel
like I'm not paying attention to you.
And letting her respond to that and you
saying, look, I don't want to me being
on this. This is not at all me trying to
signal that I'm not trying to be here
with you. I'm trying to escape on you
and have that conversation. And that's
where you can say it is important to me
that I have these things and for me to
be able to connect with you and kind of
rest my brain. I need to take care of
these things. What's the best way that I
can do that? I think then that's when
you actually are able to have a
conversation of like let's make a g game
plan that makes sense because
if you you put your inconvenience over
her comfort she will always discredit
that to you your bank account will
always continue to to go low
and if but if you say look I I'm willing
to do a little bit of inconvenient
things to make you feel better make you
more comfortable I mean that that only
grows your account I mean that that when
when you have a relationship that can
last a whole lot longer.
>> I think I'm slightly traumatized because
um [laughter]
I I think the model that I had of
relationships meant that someone can
increasingly sort of encroach on your
freedom.
>> Yes.
>> Until you are virtually powerless.
>> I think that's a lot of guys. And
>> I've felt that. I've certainly felt
that.
>> Yeah. So I I try and fight back and
sometimes I think I overdo it. And this
is what this is one such example where
actually objectively when I hear myself
say she asked me not to like be in on my
phone in bed. I'm like well it's kind of
a reasonable request to be honest. Like
the bedroom can be a place where we just
like go on the phones. I could just do
it in my office and then come to bed
when I'm ready.
>> Right.
>> But I think my I get my backup because
I've just got so many examples of men
who like didn't stand up for themselves.
>> Yes.
>> And then were rendered powerless down
the line. So it's like if I give you
this then tomorrow you're going to say
maybe you can't be on my phone in the
kitchen
>> and then maybe I can't be on my phone in
the bathroom. And then so I just
thought, well, if I just stand up for
myself here, then I just hold hold off.
>> What I'm not at all saying is that the
guy go, "Yeah, sure. That's fine." And
then she asks for something. I go,
"Yeah, sure. That's fine." And you just
you're super passive with everything.
That's where I think you do feel like
you're just you look around, you you've
given up everything to where you don't
feel like I I have anything to to grab
on to.
>> I want to throw in another example that
a lot of people relate to. A lot of men
have like a hobby with with their guy
friends, right?
>> Like watching the football, talking [__]
in a group chat. I think it's so
important to defend those things.
>> Absolutely.
>> Even for her attraction to you.
>> Like I think I I have no evidence to say
that this is true. It's just a feeling.
I think to some degree that my partner
likes the fact that I'll stand up for
myself in certain in certain areas and
that I'll say, "No, no, no, no. This is
me time. This is for me."
>> I agree.
>> And I can imagine the opposite, the
pacivity or kind of rolling over as
being a really like unattractive thing.
>> Absolutely. I I think where you are
laying yourself down or just rolling
over that is that can be very
unattractive that it's you need to have
a backbone. At the same time, you can't
be so extreme that your way is the only
way. But when you choose to say, "No,
no, this is I'm going to willing to take
a stand here." Then that's I think to me
it sends a signal of strength, right?
Strength of mind, strength of will. But
for me, when you have those things that
are your hobbies, the things that you
really like, a sign of a good
relationship is that she's going to be
happy, you get to do those because they
make you happy. Even though she might
hate it and think it's annoying and it's
weird and you know, you're taking up
that space in the garage and whatever,
but if it makes you happy and they know
that this is your space and this is your
time because I I you have to have those
things that fill you up, right? And the
truth is the marriage isn't enough. The
kids aren't enough. Your job's aren't
enough. You have to have things that
personally for you by yourself. If your
thing is to go to a pond and go feed
ducks, go do it. You know, to to be able
to fill yourself up. If you if
like I I I know for parents, early
parents, there's this this mindset of I
have to be with my kid all the time. I I
can't ever leave my kid. That I need to
just be there.
But what you find is you'll be so much
better when you actually go take care of
yourself and go on that guy trip, uh, go
play that round of golf or whatever it
is that's actually going to feed you and
fill you up and then I can be there for
you all the more.
>> I think some people's partners,
they don't they're not like that. Some
people are in a relationship where their
partner cuts out as much of these things
as they possibly can. Yeah.
>> So that they can control their partner.
I mean, we I think we've all got a
friend in a group chat.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Who [laughter]
>> has kind of like seems to have lost all
their freedom and their autonomy and
agency since they've been in that
relationship.
>> They'd say they're on a leash.
>> Yeah. They're on a leash. Like they can
never come to the thing.
>> Mhm.
>> That's not okay.
>> And it appears to be a consequence of
boundaries, like not
reinforcing your boundaries early. It
appears to me to be a bit of a slippery
slope boundaries.
>> Oh, yeah. Do you know what I mean? Like
where you like you kind of make a
concession and because you've made a
concession, they're more likely to
pursue another concession,
>> right?
>> And then before you know it, you're
behind bars [laughter] alone.
>> Yeah. And and frustrated and wondering
how you how you got here. I know we've
spoke about boundaries in the past. To
me, it it ultimately comes comes down to
am I protecting the priority? So, if I
know that my marriage is the priority,
I'm going to set boundaries that protect
that. I mean, for me in my life right
now, whether I'm working on a book or
speaking or a podcast or whatever, it's
am I setting the boundary up to be
protecting my my family in my
relationship.
So, you have to first define what is the
priority here. So if the priority is
knowing that
we want to be you and your partner want
to be in a relationship and you know
make sure that Thursday is date night.
Okay, that's nothing gets scheduled on
date night. There's certain things that
just aren't movable. The answer is no.
And when you can have those really hard
nos, it makes feeling the time of
everything else all that much easier.
But that's it. I mean it ultimately
comes down to are you being real about
it? Are you being fake about it?
>> In your view, you talk about being nice
and being kind. Um, I've heard you talk
about this on your podcast. What's the
difference between being a nice person
and a kind person? And which one should
I aspire to be? Stop being nice at the
expense of being real. So nice is
something that we got taught really
early on. Hey, be nice. Play nice.
And if you believe forever and always
that being nice serves you well, you
will ultimately serve it. You will
people please. You will only choose to
say the nice thing. You will nice is
very surface.
If you went on a date with somebody and
I was like, "How was a date?" And you
said, "She was nice."
>> Yuck. Yuck.
>> Yeah. Does does that mean that was good?
No. Of course. But you're want to say
the nice thing. And so it becomes very
much about pleasantries of what's
something that that is politically
correct or whatever it is. Kind is very
deep. It's related to the word kin. It's
it's connection. So where nice is
concerned about surface, kind is worried
about connection. So
nice people say, "Oh, I can't tell them
the truth. That's that wouldn't be nice.
That wouldn't be nice. I can't say
that." kind says, "I care about you
enough to say the truth." That I I care
about you enough to tell you the truth.
So when you have the chance, don't
choose nice at the expense of being
real. Choose the kind thing. Like if you
and I were in a conversation and I was
like, I could really I could just go,
"Yeah, man. That sounds great with the
decision you're going to make because I
just I don't want to upset you. That
that wouldn't be nice." versus me
saying, "Stephen, I I have to tell you,
man,
this doesn't feel right to me." Which
one's the kind thing of of telling you
the actual truth? It's being authentic
to it. So, a lot of people, they they
look back and they're just people
pleasing. That's all they've they've
been because they've always chosen
what's nice, not what's kind.
>> You must get a lot of messages from a
lot of people pleasers
>> all the time.
>> And what is it they want from you?
They're wanting to know how to stop
pleasing other people and to start start
pleasing themselves. Like how to I
always say that there's not a problem
with people pleasing as long as you're
one of them. Yeah. Of of
it's okay to do things that other people
ask you to do and you want to serve
other people. I'm not saying it in a as
a servitude way of I can never have any
of my own voice. It's it's where you
constantly
are put yourself in inconvenient
places for the sake of other people
hoping that they will see your true
value. So they conflate
the pleasure of others with the value of
themselves.
And so meaning I mean nothing to myself
if you're not happy with me. I mean
nothing to myself if if I can't please
you. you you want this? Oh, okay. I'll
go get it. Oh, you need this. Let me do
this. Oh, I already thought about this.
You love this. And they've forgotten
their own sense. And so, I've met people
that have, you know, a lot of it's also
early childhood, right? They they
learned that to save the marriage
between mom and dad, they need to be
everything to everybody. They have to
give up. They they've missed childhood
in order to please everybody else. And
so it becomes a pattern of safety. It's
a survival skill of knowing for me to
have to survive in this, for me to have
worth, well, I can't do it unless
everybody else is happy with me.
>> Are there any case studies that come to
mind of people that have read your work
and have made real transformations that
have shocked you or made you happy or
proven to you the profoundity of being
able to take control of conversation?
We took a a survey poll within my
membership and it was already I think it
was like 93% of people with even in the
first
three chapters of my book it had already
significantly impacted them in their job
their family and exactly what they were
reading the book for because everybody
picks it up for the conversation they
have in their mind. you know, they
people don't watch my content to handle
to know how to handle the last
conversation. They watch to know how to
handle the the next one. And so to be
able to provide the results that they're
wanting
is a is a is a blessing.
I've just finished writing my third
book. I haven't firmed up the title yet,
but I have started mocking up some
different designs. And I've been doing
this with Adobe Express, which is one of
our sponsors. What I love about Adobe
Express is that it makes it so easy for
me to obsess over the tiniest details.
The typography, the font, the color, the
text placement, the stuff that might
sound petty to most people, but actually
compounds to create something that
stands out, something that's one better
than the rest. And designing my cover
art has reminded me of how many creative
things I've learned over the year. But
it's also reminded me that there are so
many creative minds around me that are
also sitting on their own secrets. So,
I've created the one better guide in
Adobe Express to bring those tips to
you. And in it, you'll find principles
from the very, very best in their
industry turned into quick and easy
practices for you to apply so you can
train yourself to create exactly like
the best performing teams in the world
do. Just head over to adobe./1
better to download Adobe Express now and
make sure you visit the learn tab to
discover how you can become one better
than the rest. Is there a particular
moment of conflict which you stays with
you the most when you think about a
difficult conversation in your life?
>> Yeah, there was one that I I talk about
in my book that was probably the most
gut-wrenching at that time was me
leaving the the law firm where I was at
and having to talk to my dad about
leaving that firm. But that's let's say
that's in the the book. What's fresh for
me now, you want to talk about that? I
mean, what's fresh for me now is
conversations that I've had with my
wife, with Sierra, and I'm having a hard
time
reaching and she's having a hard time
reaching for me, where I kind of just go
static
where I do feel sad, I do feel remorse,
or I I'm trying to and I have a hard
time expressing it. So the best thing I
can do in that mind is I use my words to
be able to say,
you know, I I feel regret for what's
happened or what I've done and I may not
be shown it right now, but I this is not
something I'm proud of. To be at least
able to show in my words how I'm
feeling. So it let's say for example
it's
about anything related to it could be
any argument really with a a husband and
a wife or a spouse or partner or
whatever it is. But we had one not too
long ago where we knew we were going to
be traveling for a bit and sometimes if
it's just the two of us what's going to
happen? You're going to you're going to
have some spats. about probably the
dumbest things you could probably have a
fight about, but that's what what
happens. And I said to her, I was like,
"Well, that, you know, if we do this and
do that, you we'll probably we're not
probably going to argue about it. It's
going to be fine." And she said to me,
she said, "Well,
either way, it's good."
Meaning, if you don't argue about
something, great. But if we do argue
about it, that's good, too. to be able
to see it as a chance to understand each
other a little bit more, to know each
other a little bit more. And
it's it's it's not without being
radically honest um with the person you
want to be with.
And that's that's hard for a lot of
people. I had a friend of mine say to me
the other day that the thing that annoys
him most about his wife is just like how
long she takes to get ready. And he like
really like offloaded it to me in a way
where I'm like this is a problem for
him. Yeah, she just takes so long to get
ready and she's like, which means
they're always late to things. A lot of
guys can relate to this, including
myself. But the way he said it to me was
was surprising. And I I remember
thinking, should he just go and have
this conversation with her or is this
like an illegitimate concern to raise?
And I think there sometimes with, you
know, because you were talking about
your experience with Sierra and her
saying like either way, it's a good
thing. Are all arguments
warranted? Like is that argument you
take too long to get ready and it's
pissing me off?
Is that a a valid thing to raise with
your partner?
>> In therapy, they say if it's hysterical,
it's historical.
Meaning, if it's really that big of a
deal, then there's probably something
deeper going on. If it's really
affecting you that much, it's like those
people who say, "Well, he's always
pushing my buttons." I ask, "Why is
there a button?" You know, it's if if
it's always getting you worked up,
there's probably something deeper that
you're not noticing. It's probably
related to something that happened when
he was a kid or something that maybe
it's
here. Let me give a good example. You
know, in in our marriage, I'm the
spender. She's the saber.
>> Okay?
>> She she can turn a penny into a dime,
right? You can pinch a penny to a dime.
And she got really frustrated with me of
like, why do you always need the nicest
thing, right? And that's typically if
she's has an option of several things,
even if I don't know the price tags, I
typically end up going with the one
that's most expensive. And it infuriates
her, right? Because she she wouldn't do
that. She's going to wait for it to go
on sale. It she could have something she
really wants and she's just going to
track it forever in her mind until it
goes on sale. And that's that gives her
satisfaction. Me, I'll just go buy it.
And I'm not saying I'm crazy what's I'm
not like some crazy spender, but this is
an issue that has always bothered her.
and bothered me.
And what we had come to find out, we had
actually used this with my AI actually,
but what we had come to learn is that
the reason why it affected me so much of
like why why do you always choose the
the nice thing is related to when I was
a kid as the oldest,
I I didn't get much of the the nice
thing. my my stuff was typically hand me
down from a friend or something else or
I I didn't get the nice thing. And at
some point along the way, you equate
that to your sense of worth. And so when
I first had the ability to pay for
anything for myself, yeah, I I I bought
the onbrand
cornflakes, you know, I bought the the
uh medication because to me that that
was equal to how I wanted others to
perceive me. And so when she realized
that, oh, it's not just me wanting to
splurge or have some kind of, you know,
you just think you
um have to buy the best. It was like,
no, that's actually it's a reflection of
when you buy me something nice, I feel
like you equate that to how much value I
I hold. I'm not worth buying something
nice for. And so it was related a lot to
my stuff. And we got to talk the same
about her stuff of why she doesn't want
to buy the thing. So, it's it's like
that having these super conversations
with your friend of why does it bother
her when she gets takes forever to get
dressed? Well, most likely it's related
to something in his past that's bothered
him that he's not seeing yet. Are the
conversation worth having? Yeah, I think
it's absolutely worth having. If it's
bothering you that much, yeah, if it's
hysterical, it's historical. I think
that's a really good point which is
we're all just dealing with
other people's inner child. Like we're
all dealing with it's just like me as a
child facing you as a child. I know we
look like adults now. I haven't got gray
hair but
>> yes
>> it's really still us just playing out
the stories and narratives from our
childhood oftent times.
>> You're exactly right. They they say in
therapy the worst thing about parents is
that they had parents. you know, I mean,
they they it's so easy for me just to
look at my mom and me forget that she
had parents, you know, that what they
did to her rather than me just looking
at what my parents have done to me, you
know, and and that's the definition of
the generational cycle. And it's
choosing to do something different with
with who you are and who you want to be
and who how you want to raise the next
generation. But we're it's it's all
survival skills. It's all childhood
trauma that's related. And when people I
have a section in my book of having
people define out
their own
the the communication skills they saw
growing up. Because most of the time if
you feel like arguments have to be this
big shouting match and everybody's
yelling and it's it's also typically
cultural, you know, of how certain
cultures how they argue and how loud it
is and if everybody versus there's some
cultures and families that it's very
quiet. Like I I I'll never forget going
to a friend's house when I was about
seven and his parents while we're eating
cereal like just had at it and I was
mortified like
>> arguing
>> arguing arguing
>> and I mean yelling at each other and I
am like bowling head mortified and my
friend is just eating cereal like hey
don't bother him whatsoever it's just
another Tuesday you know and whereas I
grew up with if my parents argued
it was going to be in their bedroom. You
know, I knew if they were going to they
went to close the door and they were
going to have a a conversation that they
didn't want us to hear. And so,
everybody has been modeled something
different where
like there's I've seen it on the
negative side where people feel like you
don't really love me unless you want to
fight with me. It's because that's all
they've been modeled, fights. They have
to say the most hurtful thing. They need
to be in tears. They need to be saying
horrible things to each other for them
to feel any kind of love. And I've also
seen it where people are wallflower.
They don't want to say anything. They
want to be really hesitant because bad
things happened when they spoke out at
home. They they realized that telling
the truth wasn't good for them. They
they they learned that lies protected
them.
>> It's interesting when you have one
parent that conducted themselves in a
certain way and the other parent was the
opposite.
>> Yeah. What then happens to you? Like
which communication style you then
adopt?
>> Which parent takes more of an interest
in you is where it typically goes. The
one you're most of the time with. And
see, I know people who their parents are
kind of absent, but they spend a lot of
time with their grandmother. And so I
know a guy who he sounds just like his
southern grandmother from Kentucky, you
know, because that's who he spent most
of his time with. And so it's it's who
takes the most interest in you. It's
it's where the parents
what I what I find so interesting in
communication we talk everything is
learned from how we were raised is at
one point in time there was utility to
what you were doing. There was a utility
to lying. It protected you. Protected
maybe your mom. It protected maybe your
dad. There's utility to it. There was a
utility to manipulating to be able to
say things weren't this way in order to
keep the family together. So there was a
utility to the very skill that you still
have and eventually it catches up with
you.
>> What is it about our communication do
you think that makes us accidentally
disliked by other people?
>> It sounds fake.
>> It sounds fake. And how does it sound
fake? Give me give me some color. Um, if
you want to know the secret if
somebody's being fake with you, there's
really three things that you got to
know. Number one, it's what I call
bestie bombing.
>> Bestie bombing.
>> Yeah. So, instead of like love bombing,
it's bestie bombing. I have people who
come to me all the time of I feel like
somebody's being fake with them. And
what they're doing is it's, "Oh my gosh,
I just we're we're literally the same
person. Oh, I think we're best friends."
And it's we just met. Like I just we I
already talked we're just standing next
to each other at the same party and
they're like, "Oh, we've got to go. Oh
my gosh, we you're my best. You're my
soulmate." And it's like they they give
way too much right out of the gate of
how much they love you.
>> Ah, yeah.
>> And it's it's nothing. It's not what
secure people do. Secure people don't
attach to you instantly.
>> Is that a form of manipulation?
>> No, it's a form of insecurity. It's it's
a form because if it would be
manipulation if they actually meant it,
but they don't. It's it's
these inauthentic relationships that all
of a sudden it's like, "Oh my gosh, we
we're going to be best friends. I I love
you so much." And you're like, I I I'm
don't even know I don't even know your
last name. What are you What are you
talking about? So, you see that a lot.
Two is the over compliments. We all have
this sixth sense to be able to sniff out
if that's real or not. Like nobody needs
to teach you if it's a fake laugh or
not.
You know what I mean? Like Yeah.
[laughter] Right. I don't know. Was that
real or not, Stephen? Yeah. Yeah.
>> It's so funny. Yeah. Because we we think
we can spot everyone else's fake laugh
and then conspars.
>> Exactly. [laughter] Exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
That's exactly right. It's like But
nobody had to teach that to you. Nobody
had to say, "Hey, if you hear like this,
it's a fake laugh." No, no, no. We all
as humans it's we have an ability a
sense to go nah that didn't sound real
that's not a real smile you know people
have their like photo smile and the real
smile
>> and the same with the the the laughter
or like that's not that wasn't that
funny or they overcomplent something
they compliment your shoes I mean and
then they have really they go oh my gosh
I I I love that outfit and then all of a
sudden they've turned their head you
know what I mean they're not really
truly engaged in what it is it's just
it's it's a ritual to them of that's how
they have learned because to me if you
have to perfectly curate yourself this
this sense of perfection you you're not
getting the real human you're getting a
person in character you're getting them
in and scene you know they have to like
get into it and so it's it's um it's
something that's so so fake every every
single time and then I the third that
you have to watch out for are the people
that aren't willing to actually have an
interest in you.
Meaning they never ask anything about
you. They're only wanting to talk about
themselves. Like have you ever been in a
I know you have and you're networking in
a big room and somebody's looking at you
and all of a sudden they're looking at
the room like they're they're looking
for who they're going to talk to next
and you've lost them. And so it's like,
why? We're both just kind of here saying
things. We're going to slow down our
words so it's not as awkward. And you
say things like, "Yeah, that's that's
crazy." Yeah. And like while you're both
looking for somebody else to talk to,
but that's what happens. You realize you
stay you come out of focus and they
they're looking for the next person. A
really um surprising point of uh
feedback or compliment someone gave me
once and it's surprising because I never
considered it to be something that
people were noticing is when I do like
meet and greets and you're meeting say
100 people before or after a talk or
whatever and they're coming up one one
at a time.
>> I will get DMs in the preceding days of
people telling me that they liked the
way that they watched me pay attention
to someone else.
>> Do you get this
>> all the time? Yeah. They're watching how
how interested you are in the person
that's talking to you.
>> And I didn't I didn't obviously it's not
something I'd thought about before until
probably had about 20 messages over the
last year or two from people saying and
do you know what I noticed even how much
you were paying attention to the person
that spoke to you. Not to them. They
were in the line waiting. [laughter] But
it's the per and I just thought that's
so interesting that we judge
>> other people by how they interact with
>> other people while we're watching as
well.
>> Right. And that being interested is seen
as makes you likable. I guess
>> presence is the highest form of
authenticity.
>> Like I can talk to you, but am I here
with you?
>> Am I do I have my eyes with you? Am I am
I interested in you? Am I going to am I
easily distracted? Am I have my phone?
Am I am I really paying attention? Or am
I making sure that you know you are the
most important thing that's happening in
this moment? Even if it's a glimmer and
even if it's for 30, 20 seconds and
you're doing a meet and greet and you're
saying hi or you're signing their book,
do you ask them their name? Do you use
their name? Do you look at them with
intent of true genuine thank you for
being here? None of this would happen if
not for you. People are watching the
whole time and they they they know. I
mean, it's it's it's such a
>> it's like what you know it when you feel
it kind of thing. And to me, it's it's
presence. Am I am I truly here with you?
Okay. Because even at the house, you
know, you can say, "Well, I'm home all
the time, but are you are you just
looking on your phone? Are you just
sitting on the couch? Are you always
reading? Are you that's not presence?"
>> I'm going to play this video on the
screen for anyone that's uh watching the
video. Okay.
>> But it it immediately made me think of
um this clip that went viral of Miley
Cyrus and Amy Campbell.
>> Oh, I haven't seen this. They were doing
a meet and greet
together and they were just chatting to
each other and kind of ignoring the
fans. And you can
be
>> I just remember thinking this is like
the antithesis of what we've just said.
>> It's painful to watch. I know it's
painful for the people. I mean I it's
several layers of where
one, it's an area of really little
forgiveness.
You know, if you think of somebody of of
her caliber, so to say, of like her
celebrity, right? Seen thousands,
millions, it's happened. And is there
really room for just having a
conversation with somebody like if I if
you're her, how do you what would be the
justification? Right? If you could just
pause and say, "What is it?" Maybe you
say, "Well, there isn't any." Okay,
that's fine. But let's say one, when it
comes to presence, there's really not
any room for
forgiveness. It's it's either you're
present with them or you're you're not
because this kind of thing can last
forever. Second of all, people will
forget what you did, but they'll never
forget how you made them feel.
And
people will remember you, Stephen, of
they will tell their kids and their
grandkids of the time that they met you
and how nice you were, how present you
were, and how you were genuinely
interested in them. And that makes all
the difference. If you have one slip up,
that's when I say it's it's it's not
very forgivable. When when you have one
slip up, it's showing applied to all
because if you can do it to them, you
can do it to me. The slip up will also
travel much further.
>> Faster too.
>> Yeah. Faster. F
>> because I guarantee you, you know, you
think of all the meet and greets that
somebody like that has had and has had
genuine real interest. They they mess up
one time, they get tired one time. Well,
then all of a sudden that's what travels
way faster. So, but the thing is that
that's why I say presence is the highest
form of authenticity because if you can
take that moment to be truly interested
in somebody because who am I? You know,
I'm I'm a guy from a small town who made
videos in my car and you're going to
come to my book signing and you traveled
and you flew in two hours. Like, why
would I not? Hold up. Take the line. Let
me spend three minutes with you. Can I
give three minutes of my life to talk to
you? What are you doing here? And so
when you have
that humility and there's several people
I know you know many names of they they
forgot how they got what they got.
>> Oh yeah. I have a really interesting
example of this recently where we
appointed a new chairman to our company.
>> He's called Nikki
>> and um incredible guy. He's been at like
he'd been proctor and gamble doing
product for I don't know 12 years. then
went to Boston Consulting Group and was
one of the senior figures at Boston
Consulting Group for 25 years. And you
know, he's in the the home stretch of
his career.
>> Mhm.
>> And he joined our company
and
he is, you know, he he's achieved so
much. He's he's worked with the biggest
the best in the world globally,
>> right?
>> So, he's got the right, one would say,
>> I like that,
>> to be a certain way. That's what someone
might say. But I'm over here in Los
Angeles. Um, he joins the company as
chairman. And the interesting thing, the
interesting feedback I got, I know 5,000
miles away was a very junior member of
the team came up to me and said, "Oh, I
love Nikki." And I was like, "Explain."
And he went, he sat down with me and
gave me an hour of his time.
That was the reason he loved him.
>> That was it.
>> That was it. It was presence. and and
what what I I [clears throat] later
found out was that Nikki went into the
company and there is hundreds of people
and he sat down with every single one of
them regardless of whether you're an
intern or whether you're the CEO and it
always it's always stayed with me how
much that has mattered how much that has
shaped his perception just disproport
he's brilliant and everything but
disproportionately shaped his perception
just by giving someone the most valuable
thing which is just their time.
>> Yes. And um I mean maybe it's a a story
of how to be a good partner. Maybe it's
a story of how to [laughter] be in the
public eye,
>> right?
>> Maybe it's also a story of how to be a
great colleague or team member or
leader.
>> Yeah. Or just a great human. Yeah.
[laughter] I I think there is um when
you're always in the habit of giving,
giving then feels a lot like receiving.
So when I'm giving my time, it also
feels like I'm receiving that time back.
when I can continually have that spirit
and you have that knowledge of
humility. They say, "What does humility
mean?" It it means you realize that you
are just as weird and terrible as
everybody else. When you realize I I'm
I'm the chief worst person there is. No,
I'm not better than a single person that
is in line to to do or attend something
or sit in an audience. I I am no better.
I've just been through a lot. Still been
through a lot. And so I know a lot. And
when you have that mindset of
I want to meet and touch every single
person. If I were to come in here
and
only talk to you, but not talk to your
team,
[clears throat] what's what do you think
that's going to do when you can go
somewhere and not just talk to who's the
most popular,
but also talk to who's the least? Like
it's it is you will always get way more.
and for yourself and for the other
person when you can lower yourself to
say, "Hey, we're just humans in a room.
How's it going?"
>> It's interesting that we um we're
figuring people out by how we observe
them vicariously. We were talking about
it in the context of like a meet and
greet a second ago. Yeah.
>> What you said there tracks perfectly
with with that, which is when you walked
in the room, you didn't just speak to
me, you also asked Berta, who's
recording the podcast today, what her
name was. And then you said to Berta,
you said, "Thank you for doing this."
right
>> now. Isn't it funny that I remember?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Isn't it funny that that was like two
and a half hours ago and I remember
because it was really memorable to me
that you did that
>> because not everybody does that. Not
everybody will, you know, notice that
>> B is in the room with us and she's
running all these cameras and she's
putting it together. But for some
reason, just before we started
recording, you made a point of asking
her what her name was and then
>> and then thanking her for doing this
today. Yeah.
>> Most people don't do that.
>> And as you walk away from today, I'm not
going to remember like that you you
walked in and said something nice about
me or whatever. The most shocking thing
and therefore the most memorable because
it is the most unusual
>> because it is typically the most
overlooked is you acknowledging the
other people.
>> Yeah.
>> And um
I've noticed this as a paradox that I
almost need to put words to, but I I
remember
in something I wrote a long time ago
saying how useless absurdity will define
you more than useful practicality. And
what I mean by that is the example I was
giving was in the context of my old gym
where they have this massive climbing
wall in the entrance. And I came home to
my girlfriend and said, "There's this
incredible gym. It's massive. They even
have a 100 foot climbing wall in the
entrance." What I'm doing is I'm
pointing at the most absurd thing to
give you a shortcut that tells you
everything about that gym. Now, if I
point at the most absurd thing, you know
the gym is big.
>> Oh, I got chills. Yeah. Yeah. So good.
Yes. If I say there's 100 foot climbing
wall, you know, there's lots of running
machines,
>> right?
>> So, if I if I when I leave here and go,
he was so nice. He even spoke to Ber and
um thanked her for doing the podcast.
I'm using that as a shortcut because
it's the most standout absurd thing to
tell other people everything about you.
>> Yes. I love that.
>> And this is why we should value the the
seemingly petty and seemingly small and
seemingly inconsequential because other
people don't. Therefore, it creates
maximal impact.
>> Yes. That that's why the big
conversations rarely matter. the small
ones do. It's the small ones with
strangers. It's the conversations you
don't have on the stage. It's the
conversations you have in your driveway.
It's the conversations you have in your
backyard at the coffee shop. It's it's
the conversations you have to somebody
passing by in the elevator. Like, it's
those that that's what defines the human
experience. If I were to text you a
compliment, right? That's one thing. But
if I were to say, "Hey, I just finished
lunch with soand so who you also know. I
got to tell you, this person loves you
so much and and I share with you what
they said about you, you're going to
take that differently.
>> If I wanted to give you, let's say if
someone want to give me a gift, right?
But instead, they didn't give it to me,
they gave it to my kids.
>> I mean, that's h how much more would
that define how much they care,
>> right? It it's anytime I go on a a
stage, I make it a priority that I know
the guy who's or girl who's putting on
my the AV system, the lapel mic, the
everything. I want to know their name. I
know how how many times they've done
this today, how they're doing because
it's so easy just to turn and keep
talking to who's important while and act
like they're just doing it. Like it's
when you can truly talk to the people
that's just a regular person and forget
that you you don't have to just stick to
the somebodyodies. You don't have to
look always for the somebodyodies. I
used to say that I again this comes from
employing a lot of people that we all
have invisible PR
>> and it's and it shows up in the moments
that matters the most but it's built in
the moments that seem to matter the
least.
>> Yeah. And the example I always think of
is being working in the New York office
um many years ago and getting a message
from my team member just saying, "Oh,
Jenny's so nice. She just Tim tripped
over and Jenny immediately got up from
her desk and ran across uh to the first
aid kit and sorted him out. She's so
nice." And I'd hear that 3,000 miles
away. And then a year later, I'd be sat
with Jenny during her promotion
conversation.
>> Yeah. And that one thing she did, that
small thing she did was often the time
where I'd go, you know what, this person
is a certain type of person and we
should
>> double down on them. And then I've got
the opposite as well.
>> I've got the a little thing someone did
to someone who was not necessarily their
line manager or significant.
>> Yeah.
>> And it, you know, and even things that
happened to me years ago when I came up
to I walked up to someone famous. I've
told this story. It's so crazy. I told
this story on the podcast like episode
three [laughter] and no one listened and
then um like 3 four years later the
podcast got bigger and people started
listening to people go back to the old
episodes.
>> Mhm.
>> And this famous person tweeted me like
four years later I was like I heard
you're talking about me in the UK blah
blah blah blah blah.
>> But I was I was just sharing as an
example for like invisible PR where
someone I'd gone up to someone famous
and asked them a question and they just
like
>> bang. Yeah.
>> Like laid into me.
>> Right. And I and I, you know, I don't
know what they're going through that
day, but it it always, you know,
>> well, that's but that brings it around
like full circle because like we just
said, you can have those little moments
where it's it's the rock wall, right?
Where little moments of connection, of
presence, of real authenticity, of them
being with you that you'll remember
forever.
And I bet if I had to guess, there's a
moment in Steven at the playground
growing up that or a teacher, somebody
in your life said something that was
nice and you've remembered forever.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> But I
would also venture a bit.
>> Yes. Before you've even said, I could I
thought of the moment
>> that Okay.
>> Playground Steven where somebody said
something hurtful.
>> Yeah.
>> Or rude or said something about how you
look or your appearance. Maybe not even
recess, but sometime in your life.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And it was just something maybe it was
about for a lot of people it's like
their weight or their appearance or
their looks and they've carried that
around with them forever and that like
without knowing it that person gave you
an insecurity for the rest of your life.
And so it's so wild to me how the
positive is remembered,
the negative is remembered much longer
and travels a lot farther. And I mean
it's when I ask that to a group that I'm
talking to, those hands are always way
more raised for the negative, for the
one thing that the power of your words
lasts way longer than you'd ever think.
The ripple effect will affect people
you've never met. I mean, you think
think of the people who you've touched
and the people you've never met, but yet
they have a perception of you based
three persons down,
>> right? And how I talk to my kids will
affect how they talk to their kids and
their kids. Children I'll never meet.
And when you realize that how I talk to
the person behind the cashier affects
how he or she talks to their kids when
they go home based on what I said will
determine whether they come home and
say, "I had a really bad day. I had a
really hard day and it it's because of
what I said because I was rude or I was
impatient because they didn't get it to
me fast enough and all of a sudden
without knowing just as much as the
positive lasts so does the negative.
It's now I what I chose to say is
responsible for how they're treating
their own kids.
>> And that's what how we are as humans,
right? Like we um the reason why we
survived is because we're good at
gossip.
>> That too.
>> We're good at passing on stories. So,
you know, I could tell people before
they met you if you were a risk.
>> No. Yeah.
>> I could, you know, don't go near him.
Don't go near that cave. There's a
>> threat person in there that's going to
kill us. So,
>> right.
>> It's a survival adaptation, I guess, in
some respects to be gossipy and to pass
on people's reputations.
>> But we've always asked what's the news?
>> You know, people going through town from
town to town. You you didn't you didn't
really have a paper. It's do you have
any news?
So, I'm going to push you to close to
give me the five things that you think
are most important for anyone who's
striving to be a masterful communicator,
conversationalist
to get what they want out of life, which
is really what I think is it is the last
domino when we talk about body language
or communication tactics or all the
things we're talking about. I think
people are trying to get something out
of life, whether it's to have a better
relationship or to
be respected or what, get a promotion,
to be successful. I think that's
probably the the output we're looking
for
>> ultimately. Do you agree with that? I
don't want to like what is it that
what's the last domino that people are
looking for when they talk about this
stuff up here?
>> Selfworth.
>> Selfworth. Okay.
>> Am I Am I enough?
>> Am I enough? Okay.
So what are the what are the five most
important things to summarize if you had
to give me five.
>> The first is authenticity.
If I cannot be genuine with you, if I
cannot be real with you, then I can be
nobody to you.
>> And on authenticity,
you know, on your bad day, are you still
authentic at work?
>> Yes.
>> Like if you're if you're really, you
know, having a [clears throat] bad day,
do you show up to work as your authentic
self?
>> I would say yes. I mean, there's
obviously certain parameters that are
within social norms of just because I'm
having a a bad time and in a bad mood,
does that give me a right to rip you a
new one? Uh, just because you said hello
to me that morning, you know? No. But I
I think that there is certainly a space
to say, don't act h like you're happy
when you're not.
>> What about lying? Is that a violation of
authenticity? So, a colleague comes up
to me, they say, "What do you think of
my new
haircut?" And you think it's terrible?
Yeah.
>> What you What' you say?
>> It's an interesting choice. [laughter]
Probably is what I'd say.
>> So, you wouldn't lie.
>> No, I wouldn't. I would probably change
it to where it's I'm glad that they like
it. You know, I I don't have to like it
for you to give it any type of worth. If
you like it, that's awesome.
>> And authenticity as a strategy builds
trust over time. So, that's a long-term
game, I guess.
>> Yeah. No, I I came across some research
uh recently where it was in social
settings, those that are more authentic
are also the ones that are more trusted
and the ones you want to be around more.
>> Why do people struggle with
authenticity? It goes back to this point
about people pleasing, I guess. But
there is a certain type of person, I
think, that probably struggles to just
be,
you know, just to show up in all the
ways that they
they are to be themselves. They grew up
in places that weren't safe,
whether physically or emotionally.
They they grew up unsafe. And so they're
always tense. They're always anxious.
They're always worried about the next
shoe to drop. They can't rest.
You see people that had come from very
hard, harsh environments.
you'll see the survival skills that have
come out of that. Um,
it's because they they simply didn't
have a place to be safe.
>> Number two,
>> reduce the amount of distraction.
>> Reduce distraction. Is that the same as
saying like increase presence?
>> Well, that is the the benefit of it.
Yeah.
If you want to increase your presence,
you have to eliminate distractions. And
that means eliminate how often you're on
your phone.
>> I've got some thread here. Do you know
why this is here?
>> Yes.
>> Well, you explain.
>> Well, I mean, so just a piece of very
pretty red string. And this string is
going to represent the connection
between the two of us. So, give you the
end of it. What I just gave you is a
piece of string. And it connects between
your hand and my hand. And it's taught
right now. So this string right now
represents the connection between us in
conversation.
>> It's tight.
>> It's very tight. I'm going to ask
questions throughout this that don't
think about how what the right answer
is. Just go with what your gut instinct
of how it feels. So right now it's
tight. And if I look at you in the eye
and I say, "Stephen, how's it going,
man?"
>> It's going good. Yeah.
>> Yeah. What was something that frustrated
you yesterday?
>> My haircut didn't go to plan. Tell me
about it.
>> It's just not It's not good. I don't
like it.
>> Do you find that some of the the biggest
struggles you had yesterday was mostly
with business or personal or Tell me
something with business.
>> Um [sighs] the struggles with business
yesterday.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, go ahead.
>> Okay. So, you're on your phone now and
the connection has been reduced.
>> Um
>> Yeah. So, I just pulled out my phone and
now I'm looking. And what did you feel
in the line?
>> I felt like the tightness went it went
loose.
>> Yeah, it went slack. Right. And but
that's the physical. What was
emotionally? How did that feel?
>> It felt disrespectful.
>> Yeah. And see if I had just both had
both hands on it like this. Now let's
put it taught again and I'm talking to
you and I say, "So what's what are you
looking forward to this weekend?"
>> I'm looking forward to
>> No, go ahead. And this is me just turn.
It's still tight. Don't worry. It's I
still am connected to you, you know.
Don't worry about it. I'm I'm right
here. Go ahead. Yeah. [laughter]
Exactly. You see how all of a sudden you
wanted to let go now.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. For anybody listening. So you we
both had it tight. I look at my phone
while still holding it tight where I'm
saying, "No, no, I'm listening. Go right
ahead." And all of a sudden, you are the
one that let go of the line.
>> Yeah.
>> Isn't that something? Because all of a
sudden, you gave up on the conversation.
You didn't want to be in it anymore.
What do you typically do if somebody's
at dinner with you and they pull out
their phone?
>> I mean, you look away or you can speak
to someone else or you
>> or you pull out your phone.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Exactly. You It's like they've given you
permission to now pick up their phone.
Somebody gets on theirs and you don't
want to look awkward or odd. So, what
you you get out yours and next thing you
know, both of you are on your phones at
dinner where you're supposed to be
communicating with each other and you're
just staring at your phone. Do you think
I sometimes think this with me being an
interviewer having this iPad in front of
me, I'm like, should I get rid of the
iPad?
>> Maybe I should because I write things
down while someone's speaking to me and
I I do worry sometimes that if I'm like
looking at a particular point or fact or
whatever that I'm
>> It's a little bit different. So, there's
a part of this that is it's it's a
production. We have cameras. We have
lights. Like, this isn't a normal just
if you and I were having coffee. But
let's say you and I were having lunch
and I'm talking like this to you and I
put my phone right here.
>> Do you feel a difference?
>> Yeah, I do. Yeah.
>> Do you feel I'm more connected or less
connected?
>> Less connected.
>> Yeah. And if I
>> am mixed priorities, not the priority.
>> Do you feel any different if I flip it
over?
>> Yes, I do.
>> And my face is it's it's down.
>> Yes, I do. It's a signal
>> of
>> that you think this is more important
and you don't want to be distracted.
>> Imagine what would you feel like if
you were on a date or got together with
a friend
>> and you just said, "Hey, where's your
phone?" He said, "Oh, I just left it in
the car. I just wanted to sit with you."
>> Yes. Incredible.
>> Does anybody do that?
>> No.
>> No. Nobody does that. But imagine
imagine if right now there was uh let's
say a woman is about to go on a date and
she asked a guy, "Where's your phone?"
And he goes, "Oh, I left it in the left
it in the car."
I mean, what kind of
>> You think it was kind of weird?
>> Yeah. Almost like what? You mean you
want to be solely interested in me? I'm
signaling that there is nothing else
more important than what's going on
right here.
>> So, that's so such atypical behavior.
Some people might see it as a red flag.
>> I No, that's probably true. But if I
have it here, even if I put it face down
on the table and I'm talking to you,
>> I'm at least still having my world, my
business, my stress, my chaos. It's my
It's my pacifier. You don't you're not
going to ask me to take away my blanket,
are you?
>> Yeah.
>> And so I'm still it's still there in the
conversation with us. So even if I put
it down or I put it between my legs or I
put it in my pocket, which I think is
much better of not letting it come out
at all, but it's what's the strength of
the connection? Because we've all been
that person like we just showed with the
string where they get out their phone
while you're talking and like Mhm. Yeah.
Yeah. Uh-huh. Right. Go ahead. And you
go, I don't want this.
>> Yeah. you let go because it's like
that's this isn't real this isn't real
connection. So if you want to be a
better communicator, you have to
understand the definition of true
connection. It's keeping it taught.
>> I am so shocked when I go to restaurants
with my girlfriend cuz we have a rule
and this is actually a rule that I
completely agreed with.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is like when we go on a date or we
go to a restaurant, there's no phones.
>> Exactly.
>> We're not going to be on our phones in a
restaurant.
>> It's mind-blowing.
>> Mindblowing. We went to um when we were
we've been here all this week and and we
went to a restaurant Sier and I and I
saw so many couples and people and
friends and that were just at the table
and it it was it was dark evening and
all you see is the glow of phones just
everybody just sitting there on their
phone. It's just it's it's crazy to me.
or or the people that are on their couch
with the TV on both of them are on their
phones and and they're supposed to be
watching a movie together.
>> You know, everyone people watches a
little bit and restaurants. Yeah. So,
I'm not going to pretend we don't.
>> Yeah. At least I'm not going to do that.
I'm
>> But we we will be in a restaurant and we
just sometimes play a little game where
we kind of guess how long people have
been together based on how they're
behaving.
>> Oh, I like that. Yeah, that's fun. And
so it's it tends to be the case that
it's the younger couples where there's a
man and a woman and they're both on
their phone and I just can't believe
what I'm seeing.
>> Yeah.
>> Like I'm look I got my phone a lot but
if I'm on a date I am not going to be
sat there looking at a screen while
she's sat there looking on a screen just
in total silence.
>> Even if I've known this woman for 35
years.
>> Yeah. It's become so much of a an
emotional pacifier when I don't like the
angst of having to wait in line by
myself. I don't like having to sit on
the the subway or the tube or the metro
or whatever by myself. I I get out I get
out my phone. I don't it it prevents me
from having to have dialogue. So
instead, I'd rather just look at my
phone and watch and scroll versus
communicating. Like there's imagine
waiting for your haircut and everybody
in the room is actually talking to one
another like they used to and it would
just be wild to you. Everybody in a
doctor's office in the waiting room
everybody's looking at their phone. So
yeah, to me it's such a distraction and
that means even at the house too I think
even more so when it comes to the house.
>> So that was point number two which was
reducing distraction and therefore
increasing presence. Three, stop over
explaining.
You have to invest in the right words.
Meaning, if you are constantly just
gushing words the whole time,
>> does it make you want to listen to that
person more or less?
>> Oh, yeah. I mean, you just kind of
discount it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. All of a sudden, it's it's
kind of like the that story about the
boy who cried wolf. like you you you
talk so much that the message gets lost.
If I'm always
talking a lot, it's easy to tune it out.
It's like it becomes its own static. But
if you choose your words, if I'm going
to slow down, so how do you how do you
stop yourself from overexlaining
instead of being a waterfall? Be a well.
Meaning rather than trying to gush out
information, get them swept away in your
message, you have a confidence in
holding your knowledge. If they have a
question, they'll ask. You're available
for the question should they want to
ask. But I'm going to give you always
exactly what you need if I choose to be
a well with my information rather than
just gushing. Because when I overexlain,
all somebody's doing is indicating that
I don't really know if I believe what
I'm saying or you believe what I'm
saying, so I need to say more. I notice
there's such power in when someone asks
you a question, taking a moment to
think. And actually sometimes I notice
some people will actually say, "Let me
just think about that."
>> And the minute they do that, I'm I'm
immediately doing the opposite of
discounting what they say. I'm now
actually at baited breath to think about
to hear this very thoughtful, considered
thing they're about to share with me.
>> Right.
>> Whereas you see a lot of people do the
opposite. The minute they're asked
anything, it's just like the floodgates
open and they start filling the silence
with and they start thinking out loud.
>> Exactly. They're they're external
thinkers. What I teach is let your first
word be your breath. Meaning when you
put a breath where the first word should
be,
everything else flows. If I start
gushing, what I'm signaling is,
you know, I don't Most people wait until
they're talking to figure out what they
want to say.
>> Yeah. [sighs]
And so they say, "Well, what I mean to
say is,"Well, I say all that to say
because they're still trying to figure
it out." But if you were to ask me a
really hard question and rather than
having that knee-jerk reaction, I go,
"That's a good question.
Let me think." Then you're going to be
you're going to be in it. You're going
to know whatever is about to come out
has actually been thought about, is
actually going to be something you want
to listen to. Now you're going to be
more curious. Now you wait with baited
breath of what's gonna happen. So when
you think of business meetings,
the person who goes, "Oh, actually, you
know, I I disagree with that." If you
look at our latest studies and they just
start
versus when somebody asks, you know,
Stephen, what do you think? And you go
and you just hold that silence, it's
like a cliffhanger. Everybody wants to
hear what you said. People who are
confident, they don't have to say
something to show they know something.
They choose their moment. They choose
their timing.
>> It appears they're also the people that
are most likely to turn around and say,
"I don't have the answer to that."
>> Yep. People who are truly confident
know they don't always have to get it
right. They know that they will get it
wrong. Confident people, Confidence does
not mean you have to know all the
answers. Confidence means you know that
you don't. When you have the confidence
of knowing I don't know everything,
all of a sudden you sound a lot more
real. There's also something about you
just being the type of person that's
willing to sit in silence but also just
take up more space and time that signals
respect. The very fact that you would
have the audacity to say someone asks me
a question and I go hm let me just think
about that for a second.
>> It it means that I'm not you talked
about rushing earlier. I don't rush. And
there's something about quite aura about
that. There we go.
>> About the fact that you you you're not
the type of per you're the type of
person that can just take seven seconds,
>> right?
>> Because you are it's you're you're kind
of stealing 7 seconds from everyone
there,
>> right?
>> So that you can think.
>> And you would think that the the harder
the issue, the more time that is
necessary.
>> You would think. Yeah.
>> And instead everybody's equated it to
immediate. it it think when let's say
we're on a a ship and it we're in the
middle of a storm. Who's the person that
they all look to to say, "I'm freaking
out. I'm scared." But the captain isn't.
You know, they he this person knows. He
she knows. And we're constantly looking
for that person in times of emotional
stress. We're we're wanting someone to,
you know, I I'm too anxious, but I can
go to this person because in times of
crisis, they say, "You walk, don't run."
You know, I I'm When I act like I've
been there before, and I've seen this,
I'm telling everybody else, "Oh, oh, if
he's not worried, I shouldn't be
worried. If he's not upset, I don't have
to be upset." A lot of doctors, a lot of
professionals that deal with conflict
and crisis management, it's their job to
be as calm as could be because if they
reacted in a way that set you off or sit
you on edge, well then there's no
there's no anchor and then it's and then
it's a bad place to be. But yeah, just
having that let me think about that for
a second has a different tune of oh wow
this person
they know who they are. They I don't
rush. That's just not what I do.
>> It reminds me of every time I've had
turbulence on a plane and I've looked at
the flight attendant to see if this
thing is going down.
>> That's [laughter] so good. Yes, I've
done that. I I can't tell you how many
times I've done that where I'm looking
at the the hostess like just walking
still passing out snacks and not bother.
I'm like, "Okay, if he's not bothered,
I'm
>> We do that in conversation every day.
We're we're looking for the calm flight
attendants. We're looking for the
anchors, the captains, the people who in
times of stress and turbulence in our
life, we can look to and say, "If
they're okay and if they're good, then
I'm then I can be good." And when you
can be that person for others,
>> you're a leader.
>> Yeah. Always.
>> You are the leader.
>> Mhm.
>> This is probably the defining trait of I
think people that I have employed over
the years that I would consider a leader
or not a leader is how different they
are when [__] has hit the fan.
>> Yes. And if there is seemingly no
difference in the way they're conducting
themselves, leader,
>> yep,
>> emotional regulator. They bring the
temperature down.
>> And then you have the inverse
>> where the minute any kind of sign of
trouble, there's stress, there's
>> there's overwhelm and it's contagious.
And what they need is the calm flight
attendant to regulate them,
>> right? So I think a and people I think
who want to be leaders in their
professional lives should really think
about this like how do you show up when
things are hard. I I always tell the
story of one of my friends called Oliver
who when I employed him must have been
seven eight years ago. Okay he wasn't my
friend when I hired him but the defining
trait of Oliver was that
he would deliver me good and bad news
uh the same
>> Yeah. with the same sort of nonchalant
calm
demeanor. So he'd walk up to me and say,
you know, we've just signed Uber Across
America. We're going to be there. And
then the days where everything was on
fire, he'd walk up to me, Stephen,
Clever Chat. I say, yeah, yeah, cool.
He'd say, just so you know, and then
he'd deliver some of the worst [__] I've
ever heard in my entire life. But he'd
do it in such a calm way that I both I
was calm and I thought he had it under
control,
>> right? And I remember always thinking, I
need to put more people under this guy
>> because he's going to bring us down. And
so I just think as employers, I I
wouldn't have known that my boss or my
employer is thinking this unless someone
had said it to me. They're watching how
I deal with with things when she hears
the fan.
>> They're always watching. And I mean, I
mean, you take people that are are
watching you and your team. You have a
large team. When when you are um upset
and anxious, everybody feels it. It
[clears throat] spreads. But if you're
the one that's calm, it that spreads
too. And so it's
and and you have to get to the situation
where if you're upset, then people know
it's something to be upset about of if
you know I had um a friend in college.
He was upset about everything. I mean,
he just was a hotthead and he got upset
about the smallest things. How can you
possibly tell the difference between
what is a small thing and a big thing if
you're always having the same level of
reaction? But if you have a calmness and
let's say then you have an explosion
because it happens because you're human.
That's when people know this is
something serious.
>> Mhm.
>> Because if you always operate at a 10,
nobody's going to appreciate it when
it's really an 11. When you think about
like military generals and leaders, they
also have this other side to them, which
is they do also protect the standard.
And I think this there's a there's a
balance that's almost needed here
between being nonchalant in those
moments where something bad's happened,
we can't control it now, and then how
you defend the standard. So like you
watch the military barracks or whatever
when they're going through training,
these leaders are like screaming at them
about the standards, about the buttons,
about iron your shirt, make your boots
clean.
And so it appears on one end that they
are petty about something and they are
em you know they are these leaders are
emotional. You look at football
managers.
>> Yeah.
>> Or sporting managers.
>> They they almost exist in a bit of a
dichotomy which is like knowing when to
be controlled and then knowing when to
be emotionally seemingly emotionally
irrational about something.
>> Yeah. And I think those
those um specific situations are also
part of a system. You know, this is a
system that they've seen produce the
outcome that they want. So they know
that there's a utility to having that
big reaction or there's a purpose behind
it. What I find is the negative is when
you have people who there's not a
utility. They just they don't have the
words. the leaders who let's say curse a
lot because they don't really have the
vocabulary, you know, they they would
rather have big emotional reactions.
But the but when you have that type of
language that is not going to show that
you're in control of your emotions,
you're just less believable.
All I had to do was brain dump. Imagine
if you had someone with you at all times
that could take the ideas you have in
your head, synthesize them with AI to
make them sound better and more
grammatically correct and write them
down for you. This is exactly what
Whisper Flow is in my life. It is this
thought partner that helps me explain
what I want to say. And it now means
that on the go, when I'm alone in my
office, when I'm out and about, I can
respond to emails and Slack messages and
WhatsApps and everything across all of
my devices just by speaking. I love this
tool. And I started talking about this
on my behindthe-scenes channel a couple
of months back. And then the founder
reached out to me and said, "We're
seeing a lot of people come to our tour
because of you." So, we'd love to be a
sponsor. We'd love you to be an investor
in the company. And so, I signed up for
both of those offers. And I'm now an
investor and a huge partner in a company
called Whisper Flow. You have to check
it out. Whisper Flow is four times
faster than typing. So, if you want to
give it a try, head over to
whisperflow.ai/doac
to get started for free. And you can
find that link to Whisper Flow in the
description below.
So many of us are pursuing passive forms
of income and to build side businesses
in order to help us cover our bills. And
that opportunity is here with our
sponsor Stan, a business that I co-own.
It is the platform that can help you
take full advantage of your own
financial situation. Stan enables you to
work for yourself. It makes selling
digital products, courses, memberships,
and more simple products more scalable
and easier to do. You can turn your
ideas into income and get the support to
grow whatever you're building. And we've
just launched Dare to Dream. It's for
those who are ready to make the shift
from thinking to building, from planning
to actually doing the thing. It's about
seeing that dream in your head and
knowing exactly what it takes to bring
it to life. Enter to win $100,000 for
your dream. All you have to do is share
what it is. Learn more at
daretodream.stan.store.
>> So that was number three.
>> Yeah.
>> Stop overexplaining yourself. Yeah,
>> the second one was reducing um
distractions and the first was
authenticity. Number four, [snorts]
>> know how to deal
with their sadness.
A lot of people are hurting that you
don't know are hurting. And a lot of
people are grieving that you don't know
are grieving. Whether it's the holidays,
whether it's a
an important date or event that you
don't know about in their life and
they're hurting and grieving. If you
really want to be a top level
communicator, you need to know not to
say not only when the times are good,
but also when the times are are bad.
>> And how does how does one be there for
someone when they're going through their
moments of sadness? Is there any
principles that one should think about?
>> Yeah. But when somebody is grieving,
what you do not do
is begin with let me know if
if you if if what you are about to say
begins with let me know if it's the
wrong thing to say. Let me know if you
need anything. Let me know if I can do
anything for you. Hey, just just let me
know. Anything you need, let me know.
All you're doing is giving them a chore.
This person's already grieving at this
moment. They
It's They're going through something you
don't even know how to feel and you're
now giving them a chore of they're
supposed to be on their own to have the
ability to pull out their phone, text
their need to you.
That's never going to happen. Have Have
you ever had somebody who say, "Let me
know if you need anything." actually let
you know that they needed something?
>> Never.
>> Never. Because you've now now you've
made it more comfortable on you and now
more of an obligation on them. And we
go, "Well, you know what? I said all I
need to say. I let me know if you need
anything. Let me know how I can help."
Right? When all you've done is just
given them an obligation. You've you've
burdened it even more. Of course, they
don't want to burden you. They don't
want they don't even want to they don't
even want to live in some of these
moments. They they don't want to exist.
and they don't know how to do it. And
saying, "Let me know if isn't going to
help them." Instead, here's what you do
when somebody's grieving. You do the
thing. Whatever you thought about doing,
go do it. If you wanted to bring them
dinner or said, "Let me know if you need
any food," just go get them food. Go do
the task. Go run the errand. Go show up
and do their laundry. Go mow their yard
for them. Go do the thing. If I really
want you to be there for me and you
really want to be there for the other
person, you don't have to ask. You just
go do. And second of all, I find a lot
of time people who are with somebody
who's grieving, they don't know what to
say. They want to say something like I I
want to say something, but I don't I
don't really know what to say. I just I
feel uncomfortable. What I say is not
going to be enough. And so they just
stare at their phone and they kind of
text out a sentence and they delete it
because they don't really know what to
say. The best thing to say is just to
validate how you would assume it's going
to be feeling for them. Nobody deserves
what hap that this is totally unfair. I
can't believe that this happened. Nobody
deserves this. Be be able to express and
confirm that what they're feeling is
exactly what they should be feeling.
Don't go in with the, well, at least
they're in a better place. Hey, you know
what? Everything happens for a reason.
That's not the right time to say that if
ever to to be able to try and make them
feel better of oh you know I just at
least they're you know not is there
anything I can do any of that kind of
stuff it's like yeah I know you can do
you can bring that person back that's
what you can do that's not going to
happen you can't do that and so you
catch yourself in a corner where you
genuinely have an interest like how many
times people say you're in our thoughts
you're my thoughts and prayers thoughts
and prayers you know praying for you and
they haven't once sent up a prayer,
right? They're just saying it. If you
really mean it, text out the prayer to
them.
Text the prayer. Dear God, I'm I just
ask that you be with Stephen right now.
And what? Send the prayer to them. Why
Why not encourage them in that versus
just saying, hey, just keeping you in my
thoughts. If you are, then text them
thinking about you. No need to respond.
You think just putting it in a Facebook
comment is going to do enough? Just here
in our prayers. That's that's not
connection and that's not authentic.
That that's that's the easy shortcut.
>> I think I've spent my whole life
struggling with those moments where some
something bad has happened to someone or
they've been through something and
>> yeah,
>> you you found out over text message and
you don't know what to say.
>> You don't know what to say. You're like,
"I'm so sorry." Um, and the amount of
times I've written something and then
deleted it and written something and
deleted it. And I [clears throat]
actually got some feedback from Samir,
um, who is a a very well-known YouTuber
creator, and he's he's part of a YouTube
channel called Colin and Samir. Their
their houses burnt down in the Palisades
fire.
And I'd say what, four, five, six months
later, he came up to me in New York and
said, um,
"Thank you for the message you sent me
because it was specific."
And I know there's a cl we have a clip
of it cuz we were recording at the time.
We were I just come off stage and he was
at his at his event in New York and he'd
come up to me and said it. And it always
stayed with me that he remembered 6
months later. I didn't even really
remember the message I sent. He
remembered 6 months later that when his
house had
>> burnt down, they both just had I think
they both had like less than
one-year-old kids
>> and both of the houses had burnt down. I
sent him something specific I could help
him with.
>> I can't I can't remember the details of
what I said, but he came up and said,
"Thank you for sending me something.
Lots of people sent me messages, but I
remember you sent me something
specific." That hits the theme of when
you stop trying to be
what's most convenient to you
and start doing what might be just a
slightly little bit more uncomfortable,
a little bit more work. The choice to do
something different and be more specific
in the thought to to not just say so
sorry to hear,
>> right? That's that's that's injustice to
be I mean that's that doesn't even touch
it. But if you were to say you were to
say
>> what is happening is totally unfair like
agree with it be specific with it. Same
thing with it's the same with
compliments. The more specific it is the
more genuine it is. The person that you
remember the longest is the person who's
able to be right there with you and say
exactly what you're feeling in that
moment
>> and make a genuine offer to to support a
real Yes. And also not as you said at
the start not an offer that they have to
accept
>> because no one accepts them.
>> Yeah. That or make it a condition that
they have to reach out to you in order
to you consider giving it
>> instead of just doing it or or even when
you feel that like I don't really know
what to to say but I'm you know what if
I were them this is what I'd want and go
do the thing. Otherwise, don't say it if
you don't mean it. I mean, that's just
the to me that's a sign of
you're you're not their person because
there's so many people that are just
fair weather friends that they they want
to be there and and be part of the
success, but when your face is on the
floor and you're at rock bottom, the
people you'll remember are the people
that show up.
>> Amen. I've heard that so many times from
my guests on this podcast where they
talk about their hardest moment
>> and it's always who who showed up in
that moment that
>> um number five. If you want to be a
better communicator, you have to know
how to handle the insults, the
backbiting, the dismissive, the
belittling, the patronizing, the words
that people use to try and inflict pain.
What do I do?
If you want to handle somebody who's
trying to hurt you with their words, the
first thing you have to do is have a
bunch of silence or it's five to seven
seconds of
nothing. Make it make it enough to where
it's uncomfortable where they they know
this is not going to be fun. Number two
is you ask them to repeat it. I need you
to say that again. I need you I I need
you to repeat that. Most of the time
people can't do it. And number three, if
I need to, I ask them, "Did you mean did
you mean for that to sound
rude? Did you mean for that to sound
short? Did you mean for that to sound
upsetting?" And what it does is allow
you to be able to
operate in a way that
doesn't allow their words to hurt you or
to touch you or that cut you.
Whenever somebody is saying something
that's to belittle you or insult you,
they're they're putting a big spotlight
on themselves and they're hoping to
throw it on to you to get your reaction.
So, they're going to I'm going to say
something hurtful to you and then it's
like they're turning the spotlight right
to you. And then when you ask a
question, when you have just silence, it
allows their words to kind of echo back
to them. And a lot of people will before
they even have to say anything, they'll
go, I I shouldn't have said that. When
the more silence you have, the more
awkward it becomes and they kind of have
to take it back. They realize you didn't
take the bait. But when you put the
spotlight and you ask the question, did
you do you mean for that to
embarrass me? Did you mean for that to
sound hurtful?
They can't bear the thought of saying
yes to that. So, they have to tweak it.
They have to fix it. They have to go,
"Oh, no, no, no. I mean, what I mean,
what I meant to say was and they they go
a different way." Now, if they were to
double down and say, "Yes, that's
exactly what I meant." You get to say,
"Thank you for letting me know."
>> I was thinking about like the
neuroscience of what's going on there.
>> Yeah.
>> When you get someone to admit that
they're hurtful, um I remember
interviewing some neuroscientists who
talked about this idea of cognitive
dissonance, which is where like we all
have a perception of who we are.
>> Mh. And I guess by what you're doing
there, you're
creating the cognitive dissonance, which
is the cognitive mental discomfort by
making me kind of look in the mirror at
who I
who I just acted like. If I I don't
think I'm a hurtful person.
>> If I say something super hurtful and
then you ask me if I meant to be
hurtful, you're immediately like
speaking to my identity.
>> Yes.
>> And I don't want I'm not a hurtful
person,
>> right? And that's causing the the
dissonance which is the sort of the
disparity between who I think I am and
how I just behaved.
>> Yes.
>> And so I have to alleviate one of them.
I have to make sense.
>> Nobody believes they're on the side of
bad. They always think they're in the
side of good.
>> So you by you saying that to me, I
immediately have to confirm
>> right
>> that I am a person who is intent on
hurting others.
>> Yes.
>> That's not at all what I want to do. I
just wanted to gaslight you a little
bit. [laughter]
>> I just want to cause you pain. Yeah. And
so at that moment, it's what they're
thinking and feeling is I want you to
hurt like I'm hurting. I want you I want
to feel the control because I don't have
a sense of control now and I'm feeling a
certain way. I'm upset. So if I can make
you upset, well then I can have now I
can feel better and more justified about
how I'm feeling. And so some people
will, especially the manipulative ones,
they'll be upset, say something to make
you upset, and then turn around and go,
I don't know why you're so upset.
>> I'm I'm fine. I'm just fine. I don't
know why you're you're so upset. And
because they've just left you in it now.
Now they all they've done is just pass
it on to you. Like I don't like this
feeling, so now I'm going to give it to
you and I'm I'm totally good. What are
you talking about?
>> I had a situation in a gym a long time
ago where I was on a machine and a guy
he said that these all these machines
were his so he wanted to use them all.
And he just came up to me. This was a
long long time ago. And he was so like
out of pocket like he was you talked
about being in the pocket.
>> Mhm. super emotional within like 15
seconds this sort of slightly older
gentleman and basically like asked me if
I wanted to have a fight and it was so
bizarre to me that I felt like an
observer and I genuinely
>> Anybody else seen this?
>> No, it was him in the gym and I was so I
was I felt like David Atenburgh like I
was just like
>> and I did it and I inadvertently did
what you said which is my tone didn't
change at all. I spoke to him like this.
I'm like
>> did you just ask me for a fight in the
gym? [laughter] I was like, and then the
more cuz I asked genuinely like like
genuine curious questions and it
immediately disarmed him.
>> Yes.
>> But don't do that to strangers in the
gym. Oh my god, my [laughter] tone was
so low.
>> Yeah, but that's what it is. It's are
you okay?
>> You know, it's you're having to like
have to check on them for a second
because most of the time when you're
hearing them yell and and say ugly
things, what they're truly signaling is
I'm not okay.
>> It's there's always something else
that's going on. I've done it before
where somebody said something hurtful
and I said, "How did you expect me to
respond to that?" Or, "How were you
wanting me to respond to that?" Or, "How
did you think I was going to respond?"
And it's I've never had it where they
go, "Well, I expected you to say an
insult." Like they it's always them
backpedaling and then trying to explain
how they're feeling in that moment
because they they don't know they don't
know how to to do it. But if I can stop,
put aside like you did your frustration
and say, "Are you asking me for a fight
right now?" [laughter] You know, are is
that what you're really asking for? That
kind of are you okay kind of thing?
That'll all of a sudden your frustration
now goes away.
>> You've changed the frame completely.
>> Absolutely.
>> Cuz the frame they wanted was
aggression. Maybe that's the the
language or the frame that they know as
the way to solve problems. But yours was
like in that scenario changed to
curiosity, which was like, "What? How
did that
>> Yeah. Anytime you actually have a
mindset of instead of having something
well don't have something to prove have
something to learn. And so in that
moment you could have easily tried to
prove something of who who do you think
you're talking to? Do you know what I
you could have played that card instead
you actually got
>> curious of what's going on here? Are you
asking me for questions are powerful
that way. questions are disarming for
somebody who's trying to be aggressive
with you because they're not looking for
that type of mirror. They don't want a
mirror. They don't want to see the ugly
that they're putting out there. But
anytime somebody has that very
aggressive, I have so many people who
go, if somebody said this to me and was
so ugly and said this horrible thing
and they're looking for a quick
comeback, which I can give it to them,
but if they really care about the
relationship, I say, "Okay, I assume
they said it at normal volume. What's
their need? Like, what are they what are
they really feeling?"
>> Because if you just respond to the
reaction,
you're you're not going to hear the end
of it.
>> And we all have triggers.
>> Same. I I I definitely have mine. I
can't I can't I can't say anything. I'll
tell you one of the biggest things that
has helped me too in
um any any if anybody's wanting to
improve their personal relationships
with a partner or anything. It's one is
understanding validate first.
Frustration comes le next. If I respond
first with frustration, I'm going to
lose every time. So it's validating.
It's saying of course you'd feel this
way. It totally makes sense. I can see
how you feel that way. Acknowledging
that it's okay for them to feel that
way. Otherwise,
the partner is going to feel like I'm
being too much. And if I'm being too
much, then you're going to leave, right?
It's the it's the same sense of
abandonment. So, if I can hit that,
you're not being too much. I have the
capacity and the I can be elastic in
this relationship because I'm not going
to be my best self all the time, too.
But if I can give you a safe space for
you to be messy and me to be messy, then
you're actually going to have that
relationship. Number two, it's
understanding that
resets is your
uno wild card. Asking for a reset for if
I were to say, you know what, I didn't
say that right.
You know what? Can I can I try that
again? I didn't say that the best way,
did I? You know, I I could have done
that better. As soon as I start and ask
for a reset, I've never had anybody told
me no. Nobody goes, "No, no, you have to
stick with it right now. Go ahead. Keep
failing." Like we in a video game, we
wouldn't Why would you keep playing if
you knew you're ultimately going to
lose? It's you restart. You try again.
And so giving yourself the grace and the
other person the grace to have the
ability to start over again is a
necessary part of communicating in
relationships. And three is slice it
thinner. A lot of the times if we're
having a big conversation,
we bring up somebody might bring up the
past that past thing and we just kind of
add it on and clummit on when we start
to kind of feel hopeless about it. But
if I can slice each issue by itself and
say, I do want to talk about this. I
want to address what's in front of us
first, that makes everything go a whole
lot better. But if I can slice each part
and see the need and validate that, I've
always seen that go better.
>> And on that first point about um how you
engage with your your partner during
conflict, one of the most useful things
I heard recently was a clip I actually
saw of Bnee Brown talking about when she
comes home after like a long day.
>> Yeah.
>> She will tell her partner how much she
has in the tank.
>> It's so good. And so she'll turn to her
partner and say, "Listen, I've got 10%.
>> I can't do this today."
>> Right?
>> And I remember getting the clip and
sending it to my partner because it's
those that's some of the vocabulary that
probably would have really helped a lot
of my relationships, which is just first
expressing where I'm operating from.
>> So good.
>> And I don't think anybody is going to be
on the receiving end of honestly, I've
got like 10% in the tank today and go,
"Nope, I want to do this now."
[laughter] Like
>> exactly. Well, using percentages in
conversation is incredibly helpful. Both
in relationships, like Bnee mentioned,
of saying, you know what, I got 10%, you
got 40%, let's put it together, and
we're going to make it work, but I at
least know where you're coming from.
Same thing at work, right? I've seen
what I encourage is when people are in a
meeting and they can put out an idea,
right? Rather than going, "What if?"
Because what happens is everybody just
starts to kill it, you know? They start
pointing arrows at it because it's
because it wasn't their idea. So, we
need to tank it down. But if they come
at it and say, "Look, I got 30% of an
idea," then what happens magically is
that everybody else wants to join in.
So, if I were to say, "Look, I Steve, I
got 20% of an idea. I need your help
with the other 80." All of a sudden, you
take it as a, "Oh, me? I can I can do
that." And then everybody else starts to
build it up rather than trying to tear
it down. Or even if in conversation, if
I say, "Look,
I know I'm not going to have the right
words. I'm going to have about 60% of
it. Like that. At least is me confirming
that I know what I'm saying is not going
to always be the right thing to say.
>> I wish I did that more. This is um I
believe this is the clip I'm talking
about. It was Tim Ferris.
>> Everyone says marriage should be 50/50.
It's the biggest crack of [__] I've
ever heard. It's never 50/50.
>> Yeah.
>> Ever. And so what we do is we quantify
where we are. So if Steve comes home and
he'll be like, I got 20. Just in terms
of energy,
>> just energy, investment, kindness,
patience, I'm at a 20 and I'll be like,
I'll cover you. I got you, brother.
Like, I'll pull the 80. Sometimes we
come home, which we have done a lot. My
mom has been sick. And I'll say, I've
got 10. And Steo, like two days ago
said, I'm riding a solid 25. So, we know
that we have to sit down at the table
anytime we have less than 100 combined
and figure out a plan of kindness toward
each other.
>> Oh, I love that. Yeah, because the thing
is marriage is not something that's
50/50. A partnership works when you can
carry their 20 or they can carry your
20. And that when you both just have 20,
you have a plan where you don't hurt
each other.
>> So good.
>> That's the mistake I've made multiple
times.
>> Oh. I try and solve big problems with
10.
>> That's the mistake we make every day.
>> Yeah. I mean, for me and with Sierra and
I, it's usually if we're in a part of an
argument, typically our arguments end
pretty quickly, but the ones that go
long,
it's sometimes, you know, I just don't
feel like it. You know, I I could give
an apology, you could give an apology,
and some I just don't feel I don't feel
like being sorry right now. I will
later, but I in the moment, I'm just
>> I I I I just got this stuff in me and
I'm not ready yet. And so what happens
for me and what's been so helpful is
when I'm aggravated at that edge and I
don't want to give a thing is to say
my battery's in the red like we say in
the red because of
>> you know iPhone it's like I'm once I
know I'm in that place we know to time
out because it's or else you'd be two
hours in and you're still now you've
just said way worse things you know that
you're going to apologize for and so
often when the quicker you can get to a
timeout like if you want to know how
well a a relationship communicates. Look
how often they take timeouts because
timeouts are I mean they're
the the amount of value you get in just
a pause and then even five minutes
coming back to it. you have a different
like okay here we go like a fresh fresh
start like why would you leave somebody
on the field for three hours and never
give them a rest and you think I can't I
we do it physically but I'm not going to
do it mentally like if you if you want
to know
the key to the relationship
the metric that is the most valuable key
to a relationship is that the measure
The quality of the conversation
is equal to the quality of the
relationship. Said differently, the
quality of the relationship is equal to
the quality of the communication. You
look at all these couples that are
divorcing,
okay? Or the couples that are in bad
states.
It's because they were okay in the
positive, but they don't know how to
deal deal with the negative. So, it's
it's the measure of not just can we talk
about the happy stuff, the if you talk I
I talk to these elderly couples that
have been married for 50 years and I
say, "What's what's your secret?" It's
it's not can you be happy in the happy.
It's can you how long can you sit with
the hard and how how long can you be in
the in the sad times because those are
going to happen. And I see that so many
with the people. There's so many people
who communicate with me or message or
and they're going through a divorce or
they have been divorced and you realize
that it's it's not often that they fell
out of love. They fell out of
communication. They they stopped talking
to each other.
This is I think one of the great myths
we're sold when we get into our first
relationship is we think that the sign
of a good relationship is the lack of
conflict. But if you've ever been in a
long relationship, I think over time you
start to figure that it's not the amount
of conflict. It's like it's it's how one
manages the conflict. I read a quote
which I've never forgotten which said
you can predict the long-term health of
a relationship by whether each cut heals
to 101% or 99%.
>> I.e. does your conflict make you
stronger?
>> Yeah. And if I look back through the
conflict that I've had with like my
partner that I've been with a long time
now, I go it has actually
deepened the roots.
>> Yeah, it has to
>> like it's been productive conflict.
>> Mhm.
>> You know, which has made us stronger. Um
and that and that in part is because of
many of the things that you talk about
which is like trying not to win every
argument,
>> right?
>> And all the things in your book. It's
>> Yeah. Well, that's Sierra. That's what
Sierra talks about. Either way, it's
good. Like it's the conflict. You want
conflict in your relationship for the
growth. It is rare that you can have
individual growth alone.
>> It has to be relational
>> 100%.
>> It has to be with other people. I I I
can read a book on how to do something,
but until I do it,
>> it's it's a totally different game. So I
I I
learn relationally with things and with
other people and places, but for sure
relationship, I mean, there's just no
there's no other way to go around it.
you have to have the conflict if you
want to be if you want to be better. And
I I've seen so many times where the
people um they
face in their hands, they don't know how
to talk to one another because they gave
up on trying to repair, but they're
they're all in on trying to blame. Mhm.
>> And so when you are trying to
kind of undo what has to be done that
makes it all the more difficult because
it's just so many years where there
could have been repair but there there
hasn't been and in turn that really
hurts the relationship. I read a recent
study that the biggest predictor of the
child's well-being within the parental
relationship
is not whether they were married or
divorced. It was how they dealt with
conflict.
>> I mean, because how many people have had
parents that are still together but
fight terribly?
>> Yeah. Oh my god. Yeah.
>> And in in fact should probably maybe not
be together.
>> Yeah.
>> Or those that they're divorced but
communicate. Great.
>> Yeah.
>> And they never put their child in the
middle of it and didn't use the child as
a a male carrier between the two. to to
be able to do that is I mean you're you
get to change the whole trajectory of of
a child's life
>> at some point. We have to forgive our
parents, right?
>> Yeah, that's that's the truth.
>> Like you said, like they were they were
kids too, raised by parents that
>> this is their first time still doing it.
You know, [laughter]
>> you have a workbook on its way in March
10th called the next conversation
workbook.
>> Yeah. practical exercises for arguing
less and talking more, which really
takes everything that you wrote about
and turns it into an actionable
blueprint framework for people that
really want to embed these habits into
their lives. Um, I'm going to link that
below. Is that available for pre-order?
Will it be? Yeah, there'll be a
pre-order link. So, we'll put that in
the description below. You're also
working on some AI stuff, which I think
was interesting.
>> Yeah. Thank you. So, I'm about to
release an AI of just my content. So it
has my book, it has my podcasts, it has
my you any of my social clips of it has
it all. And so it's a small language
model to where it's everybody can have
their own personal communication expert,
you know, 247 kind of thing. It's what
they have on it, but where people get to
practice. So what I love about it the
most is let's say you you say I'm about
to go into a important meeting and I
want to sound really confident. What can
I do? or I'm about to have a my spouse
isn't listening or really upset. What
could I do? You apply those right in
that that moment and gives you a
different way of perspecting a different
way of seeing things from a different
view or what I definitely what I've uh
like is to tell it to be a boss. Be my
boss who's really mean and arrogant and
let's do an exercise of how to respond
to this situation. and you test is that
response going to be the best response
and allow it to kind of have a a
different way of practicing things that
maybe you need to be ready for cuz some
people need to be ready for the hard
response.
>> I'll link that below too.
>> Yeah.
>> So people can have a play with that and
sign up.
>> I'm excited.
>> We have a closing tradition where the
last guest leaves a question for the
next question left for you is who are
you most dying to meet and why?
>> Oh, that's a great one.
um
person I would love to meet right now
is probably Bnee Brown. That's probably
it. Really, the fact that you brought
her up. The reason why is because
>> I know that she's been in the space a
long time. And I feel that when she
shares stuff, it's very genuine. Like
there's no guessing that she's real.
>> Yeah. She's about as real and raw as
authentic as you can get. She's also a
Longhorn Texas Longhorn fan which I'm a
fan, but I feel like when and this is
just me personally, I kind of got pushed
into this field
and you you always look for people that
are your own anchors in life of who
you'd want to be a mentor kind of thing.
And that's somebody who's I feel like
has
been in the the world and and knows some
things and has just some incredible
knowledge that's helped a lot of people.
>> She's most certainly authentic. She's
incredible.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I listen, if people haven't bought
your book, which is almost nobody, but
if there are still some people out there
that have haven't bought this book, I
highly recommend it. I think I um
included it in my Smith collection as
well in the UK. You did such a smash hit
success. It's a success on two
dimensions. It's sales and it's impact.
>> Thank you.
>> And um it's also incredibly accessible.
So it's not like a a complicated science
book and it's written for normal people
that are going through very real
relatable normal problems. And um I
think that's why it's been so
successful. I think you you approach
these challenges from a very real place.
And maybe that's in part why it's been
so wonderfully received and so relatable
is because, you know, you're a trial
attorney that's bringing this stuff to
the masses, but you're not like a PhD
scholar who might have draw thrown up
the drawbridge because they they they've
spent all their life in academia.
>> And I think the way that you communicate
is so relatable and resonant that it's
no wonder that you're you've been on an
absolute unbelievable terror over the
last couple years.
>> It's phenomenal. Like crazy crazy
incredible. So congratulations and thank
you from all the people that you've
given thanks man
>> a little bit of light to a little bit of
um
>> you've empowered them with information
so that they can live the life that they
um they deserve to live. That's a
special thing Jefferson.
>> I appreciate it. Thank you Ste. [music]
>> If there's anything we need it is
connection especially in the world we're
living in today. And that is exactly why
we created these conversation cards.
Because on this show, when I sit here
with my guests and have those deep,
intimate conversations, this remarkable
thing happens time and time again. We
feel deeply connected to each other. At
the end of every episode, the guest I'm
interviewing leaves a question for the
next guest, and we've turned them into
these conversation cards. And we've
added these twist cards to make your
conversations even more interesting. And
there are so many more twists along the
way with the conversation cards. This is
the brand new edition. And for the first
time ever, I've added to the pack this
gold card, which is an exclusive
question from me. But I'm only putting
the gold cards in the first run of
conversation cards. So get yours now
before the limited edition gold cards
are all gone. Head to the link in the
description below. [music]
[music]
>> [singing]